Intentional Walk-Up Songs (feat. Steve Sladkowski)

Bobby and Alex discuss questionable algorithm-generated sports predictions, then give an update on corruption in Anaheim, try to make sense of Tommy Pham and Joc Pederson’s fantasy football dust-up, and take stock of Gabe Kapler’s national anthem half-protest. Then they bring on PUP guitarist Steve Sladkowski to talk about the parallels between a touring musician and the minor leagues, why baseball fans like punk music, the cravenness inherent to baseball ownership, the state of walk-up songs in baseball, and more.

Links:
Follow Steve Sladkowski on Twitter
Listen to The Unraveling of PUPTheBand
“What Are The Odds?” On Effectively Wild
Gabe Kapler’s blog post about the national anthem
Tipping Pitches on Patreon
Get Tipping Pitches merchandise

Songs featured in this episode:
PUP — “Lionheart” • Rush — “YYZ” • R.E.M — “Losing My Religion” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and, and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about? That’s amazing! That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I’d like to start this week with a self-indulgent hypothetical. Is that sound okay to you?

ALEX:  So in other words, a hypothetical that we usually start the podcast off with?

BOBBY:  Correct, exactly. 

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  So I was listening to effectively weld earlier today, the interview that they did with N. Venu, CEO and founder, Kelly Pratt, hope I’m pronouncing her name right. This has been much discussed in the baseball world in the last couple of days. This, this company N. Venu who provides the predictive statistics on the Apple TV+ broadcasts. Which those broadcasts, you’ll remember, were a big talking point in the offseason that they were going to exist. Now, without getting into the whole controversy over N. Venu and the stats that they provide. Long story short, some, some baseball, people are questioning the validity of those stats and probabilities that they provide on the broadcast. It got me thinking, whether listeners of this podcast could put together a predictive model for what you and I are going to talk about. And you know what? I thought about it for a couple of minutes. And I came to the conclusion that it wouldn’t be that hard.

ALEX:  Nope!

BOBBY:  –for listeners to do.

ALEX:  It’s like those Twitter accounts, right? There’s like, there’s like AI generated, like, drill tweets in AI generally. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, ours would be pretty easy. I mean, we also a couple of years ago, we had a we had a listener who made a bingo board for for each episode of Tipping Pitches. And that was really just one step removed, right?

BOBBY:  So is this a good thing or a bad thing? So on one hand, you know, glass half full, we give the people what they come here for.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  They know what to expect, and we provide [2:29]–

ALEX:  No sur- no surprises.

BOBBY:  Exactly, we’re like, in and out. You know, what’s on the menu, you might be able to go off menu if you really are a hardcore fan, and you’re gonna love it. It’s going to be consistent. No matter what in and out you go to. But on the other hands, are we too predictable? Do we need to mix it up? Do we need to, do we need to spend 25 minutes before our interview with PUP guitarist, Steve Sladkowski. Talking about the tOPS+ of Eduardo Escobar, just to keep people on their toes.

ALEX:  Right, but is, would that be like in and out introducing like a Southwestern Burger, you know–

BOBBY:  Like a hotdog?

ALEX:  –something like, right. Like something that no one asked for. And is so far out of their lane, that the people are like, hey, stick to what you know. Maybe Shake Shack introducing a mushroom burger.

BOBBY:  Or Shake Shack–

ALEX:  Hypothetically–

BOBBY:  –introducing something that’s under $15. This is a pro in and out podcast.

ALEX:  If you, if you couldn’t tell.

BOBBY:  Okay, so, so now we’re, we’re finding where we are is what you’re saying.

ALEX:  Yes, I think we are. Before we move on entirely from that, that topic that you mentioned, N. Venu, and, and the, the absolute grilling that they received from one Ben Lindbergh and Meg Rowley.

BOBBY:  Our friends.

ALEX:  Our good friends.

BOBBY:  I listen to that interview, I listened to that interview. And I was like, damn, that’s how you do a real interview. Something that we could never do here.

ALEX:  Right. I don’t really think we, we grilled Steve, to the extent that [4:10]

BOBBY:  Maybe Steve feels differently?

ALEX:  That’s true. We, we did put him on the spot about Walk-Up Songs.

BOBBY:  Anyway.

ALEX:  But, I guess I’m just wondering, are we sure that that company exists?

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  Like I obviously they exist to an extent where they have a website and there is someone who can literally go on and and make podcast appearance, right? They, they exist to the extent that Apple and Major League Baseball said, yes. We–

BOBBY:  Are you suggesting–

ALEX:  –we, we will–

BOBBY:  –that she was an actor? Kelly Pratt appearing on Effectively Wild had been hired to act on behalf of whatever N. Venu is out to do.

ALEX:  Not necessarily but–

BOBBY:  Kelly Pratt crisis actor theory begins today.

ALEX:  Like I feel like I’m, I’m gonna get in trouble for, for saying all this. Like I don’t want to actually slander them and say she’s Elizabeth Holmes. But like, you know–

BOBBY:  So I, I, I know what you’re getting–

ALEX:  Has anyone seen inside the black box?

BOBBY:  No, the answer is no. And repeatedly on that effectively wild interview, they tried to not even see inside the black box. Just confirm that there was something inside the black box.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That was something other than the man behind the curtain, just pressing a number for what the probability of a hit on any specific at bat might be.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And I don’t know if she effectively proved that there is anything inside the black box [5:36] that? I don’t know.

ALEX:  I mean–

BOBBY:  It all makes no sense if you haven’t heard this interview, or if you haven’t, at least followed along in a Twitter thread of what happened with N. Venu last week. But we will link to in the description where you–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –can go listen to this full interview. Or you can read Ben Clemens piece on FanGraphs. Like I said, up top, there’s a company that is providing real time probabilities of certain outcomes on Apple TV+ broadcasts. And that company has come under question from a lot of the baseball Sabermetrics community. Because some of their predictions are not holding up to, some of the most well-known and time proven things that we know to be true about baseball. Like it–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –being a better it being better for you when you’re ahead in the count, which is pretty widely accepted.

ALEX:  It’s also, I think, maybe worth pointing out that this is largely designed to aid betters, right? This is not them trying to just come up with a different model to make predictions and projections. But it’s intended to be used for someone who may want to bet on outcomes pitch a pitch about to a bat, etcetera.

BOBBY:  Or, or the reverse to sell to a casino and then you bet against this thing.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Which it would have to be a little better at doing its job for, in order for it to, a casino to want to purchase it, but, yes. It’s fascinating, I recommend, if you liked this show, and maybe you’re not even a big stat head, I still recommend going to Effectively Wild in listening to this. I imagine a lot of people who listen to the show. I already listened to it Effectively Wild, they’ve been doing it for so much longer than us. They’re of course one of our inspirations for starting the show. But go check it out. if you haven’t. Baseball is fucking weird, it’s in a weird place. Major League Baseball, the company and the exhibition of Major League Baseball games are in a strange strange place.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Okay, we have a few things to talk about before our interview with like I said, Steve Sladkowski from PUP. Where we had a great conversation with him about, about baseball. The state of MLB ownership, which he has a lot of thoughts on. The Toronto Blue Jays, the life of touring musician, how it compares to maybe Minor League Baseball? And a lot of other things. So please stick around for that. But we’re going to talk about Gabe Kapler. We’re going to try to make sense of Joc Pederson and Tommy Pham and ultimately fail. And of course, we have to give a status update on our friend Arte Moreno. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[8:09]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Before court reporter, Alex, shares the latest in the Angels bribery scandal. We have to say a quick thank you to all of our new patrons this week. A reminder for you, you can sign up for our patreon, at patreon.com\tippingpitches. Where there are three tiers that provide you various different things at each tier. All of them provide you access to our Slack, where we have been discussing things such as the N. Venu interview slash scandal where we’ve been discussing the Tommy Pham-Joc Pederson altercation, the very good New York Mets. Anything that you might want to talk about, you can talk about the Tipping Pitches Slack. You can get access to that on our Patreon. Thanks to new patrons. Emily, Jhon, Jhon, spelled differently. Eric, Nat, David, and Peter. Alex, last week we spoke about the Mayor of Anaheim, which you might not expect to hear about on a baseball podcast. Except for if that Mayor allegedly accepted bribes to sell land around one of the 30 Major League Baseball team stadiums to a company headed by one of the 30 Major League Baseball owners. Well, not 24 hours after we released that podcast when Harry Sidhu, the Mayor of Anaheim. He stepped down amidst the FBI investigation. Your, your comments? How does it feel to take down a Mayor on a podcast?

ALEX:  Right. What is, what is the the R-squared on this, right? What’s the correlation? It’s not low.

BOBBY:  Can we contract N. Venu to figure that out?

ALEX:  Oh man, I mean, we saw this coming right? As soon as–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –a Mayor ends up at the center of a, a federal corruption probe, headed up by the FBI. I, I feel like you, you’re kind of done, you’re kind of toast.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Even if you, even if your name is clear, the just the blowback from that makes it very hard for your political career to ascend.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. As, as we mentioned last week, the the deal around Angel Stadium. Which has involved Arte Moreno buying the land, and plenty of acreage around it from the city has had, you could say a, a tumultuous few years.

BOBBY:  Yeah, turbulent.

ALEX:  And it has, it’s a, it’s a negotiation that has, has lasted across, I think three mayorships at this point. Harry had to make himself stand out, of course by by garnering the corruption probe, right? But following Mayor’s subdues decision to resign on Monday. The, the Anaheim City Council voted unanimously on Tuesday to, to stop the sale on–

BOBBY:  [11:04] the sale.

ALEX:  On Wednesday, Arte Moreno and his unknown partners? Really just, really just the team, the Angels came out and said, we’ve agreed at this point, maybe it’s probably not in the best interest for us to make a deal with a Mayor who just resigned? So they stepped back from $325 million deal, which is obviously a, a blow to Arte Moreno himself. And, and maybe not many other people.

BOBBY:  I don’t know, it seems like a blow to all of those people who love to fanboy over the battery in Atlanta, or Wrigleyville in Chicago, that seems to have a constituency. But when you look at it from the beforehand, it really only seems like it benefits one guy.

ALEX:  Right. And obviously, a, a central tenet of this deal was going to be the affordable housing that was going to have to be built on this property. That was at the center of an Attorney General’s probe into it. The, the California, you know, Department of, of housings probe into the deal.

BOBBY:  Probes above replacement, dude. The Angels aren’t first in many things, but they are first in federal and state level probes.

ALEX:  Yeah–

BOBBY:  That might even be true–

ALEX:  [12:27] up, up their game.

BOBBY:  They might even be getting outpaced by the Dodgers in another category.

ALEX:  Yeah, I know, seriously. All that to say, the, the deal is on hold for the foreseeable future. Given what it took to get to this point. I, I don’t think we see, I, I don’t see an easy path to a deal coming anytime soon.

BOBBY:  Any next to deal is just going to be under so much scrutiny. And the price of it is going to be so intensely watched. Because, of course, people think that the reason that the price was what it was, is because the Mayor was, it’s unclear who, who’s really thought to be at fault here. But for my understanding of the reporting around the situation, the Mayor was the one who is sort of soliciting the bribes. And whether or not, you know, the underlings of the sale, we’re happy to give it, it’s sort of impossible to tell from the outside. But that would lead you to believe that the $325 million that this land was sold for is not the fair market price?

ALEX:  Right. Which it, I mean it, it’s worth pointing out that there were no other bidders because it was never put on, on the market, right?

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  Like, like they, they came to a deal before they even technically started negotiating, which I don’t know. That’s, hey, I’m not well-versed in local politics around urbanism. And affordable housing and such in real estate.

BOBBY:  But you’re not that unverse.

ALEX:  But not too unverse. Not unversed enough to, to not have that raise a red flag.

BOBBY:  Yes. You in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Okay. That was sort of a coda to our conversation about this last week. If you missed that we, we spent a, a good amount of time talking about this last week, because I think it’s pretty indicative of the weird financial state that baseball teams, the corporations that our baseball teams find themselves in. Where it actually makes sense and is necessary for a team to potentially bribe a Mayor. And for that Mayor, to then have to step down. It’s just weird that this is the world that we live in. But I think it’s important to understand when we talk about the broader economics of the game as we do so often here.

ALEX:  Yeah. And, and you know what? We’ll be taking suggestions for who to turn our attention to next, you know, where the. the Tipping Pitches political machine as well in [14:58]–

BOBBY:  Are you trying to solicit a bribe right now? Are you trying to solicit a bribe? Do you want to find yourself like Harry Sidhu?

ALEX:  Can I plead the fifth on that one?

BOBBY:  Parody, parody, parody, parody. Okay, so, so from very complicated real estate deals, to something even more complicated, fantasy football, Alex. I don’t know where to start with this. If I’m being totally honest, Tommy Pham slap Joc Pederson, supposedly over a, a disagreement in fantasy sports. This has been, this has kind of held the baseball Twitter’s sphere captive for the last five days. But also makes no sense to really delve into on a podcast. Because we don’t know either side of this, but it felt weird to just go by without mentioning it, it’s been so present.

ALEX:  I think the fact that we can’t make heads or tails of it suggests that it might be the most important thing we talked about this. Forget bribes, forget real estate. Did Joc Pederson run afoul of the fantasy football league rules? It’s unclear. From his perspective it doesn’t seem like he did, right? But, but as you mentioned, prior to a game between the, the San Francisco Giants and the Cincinnati Reds, Pham and Peterson were in the outfield–

BOBBY:  Raise your hand if this was the thing that taught you that Tommy Pham was on the Cincinnati Reds. I’m raising my hand right now. Anybody else? Thank you. Please only raise one hand if you’re currently driving.

ALEX:  I, I like the implication that there are folks out there who would raise both hands to answer that question.

BOBBY:  Maybe you just, you really did it [16:42]–

ALEX:  Nearly have no idea.

BOBBY:  [16:43] like me, me. It’s me calling me.

ALEX:  Look over here. After, after some sort of verbal dust up. As you mentioned, Pham slapped Pederson, Pederson did not retaliate. It does not seem but, but both teams sprinted towards the outfield to assess the hullabaloo. And, and after the game Pederson came out and, and gave a very lengthy explanation.

BOBBY:  Right. Almost too detailed.

ALEX:  Right. The, the clip itself is three minutes long of him talking about what happened. He violated some rules, potentially, maybe with regards to stashing players on his bench and using the injured reserve as a means of doing so. Look, I’m, I’m in no position to make a judgment. Anyway, in this situation.

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  My biggest might- yeah?

BOBBY:  Yep! If the player was on injured reserve in real life, then you can put them on injured reserve and fantasy. If he was not, you can. That’s the rule. No matter what the precedent in your league was, that should be the rule.

ALEX:  I mean, it’s it- right. I mean, it feels like if, if the player was eligible to be put on the injured reserve–

BOBBY:  Then you can do it.

ALEX:  –then you can probably do that. Yeah.

BOBBY:  If the system that you’re using like Yahoo or whatever, let you do it, then you can do it. That’s–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –my take.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  It seems like Tommy Pham probably shouldn’t have slapped Joc Pederson for this. But you know, people put a lot of money. We talked a lot about betting on this podcast. People put a lot of money on fantasy sports man.

ALEX:  Right. Well, and Pham said as much, right? He said, look, I’m a high roller casinos, man.

BOBBY:  It’s Tommy, Tommy. Tommy, let’s have a talk.

ALEX:  I guess the, the biggest thing I can’t wrap my head around is that it’s the end of May. The, the football season, as it were.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Ended three months ago. And given that this likely happened in season, there’s a decent chance that Tommy Pham has been stewing on this for–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –six months.

BOBBY:  Right. Well, supposedly the other part of this was that Pham felt that Pederson had since escalated the situation by sending some, some, some jabs in the group chat about it.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  The 2021 San Diego Padres, of which Tommy Pham was a member of.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And so that was just an offense that fam could not let stand.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Insulting the 70 and 92, 2021 San Diego Padres,

ALEX:  I just, this whole thing feels so surreal to even say out loud.

BOBBY:  No, I know.

ALEX:  Like I’m not convinced that this isn’t just an elaborate bit, you know, Allah rat raccoon gate–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –of the, of the noted Francisco Lindor Jeff McNeil dust up.

BOBBY:  There was a really funny moment on the last episode of Batting Around where they, they, they were trying to remember that little dust up from the 2021 Mets. But they only knew like kind of 60% of it. And so they were trying to get themselves all the way there. And then one person would remember one more thing. And then the next person remember one more thing. And they still kind of didn’t really get the whole story right. But it was close enough that it was hilarious.

ALEX:  I mean, here’s the thing, the details in that situation don’t matter, right?

BOBBY:  Don’t matter at all.

ALEX:  You could, you could [20:17]–

BOBBY:  [20:17] like details were–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –made up.

ALEX:  Yeah. So and, and like Pederson’s delivery to reporters about the story after the game is so good.

BOBBY:  He’s so–

ALEX:  He’s not, he does not break character once, in his retelling of the story.

BOBBY:  And he’s, he just looks ridiculous. At this point of his life, just his, his, his hair choices, his wardrobe choices. They’re not like helping the story go away–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –to put it lightly. I saw someone say that he looked like Caillou. Yeah, I don’t, I don’t know. If you ever get to the point where you want to slap me over fantasy sports. Just, I’ll pay you the money. How about that?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I commit to that on this podcast. Do not ever let yourself get to the point of wanting to fight me over fantasy sports.

ALEX:  Yeah, I’m not sure I could let myself get that heated over. What is effectively the, the performance of someone else?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  You know, like at the end of–

BOBBY:  The athletes, the funniest thing is that, in my experience, this is obviously anecdotal. But in my experience, man athletes take fantasy sports arguably serio- more serious than fans.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like if you’re–

ALEX:  I don’t know what to say.

BOBBY:  –either retired, if you’re either a retired athlete, or you’re an athlete playing another sports, fantasy sport. They take that so seriously, man. With a lot of money on the line. So, I don’t know.

ALEX:  Which is probably–

BOBBY:  [21:48]

ALEX:  –[21:48] the biggest difference. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly. We have like $10 on the line. Or like–

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  –if you’re, if it’s, if it’s a league that you really trust the people in like $100? I don’t know. From Joc Peterson to his manager, Alex. We, we’re gonna get to our conversation with, with Steve, in just, just a couple of minutes. But got some news this past week. Some interesting news, in the form of a blog post and then subsequent interview from San Francisco Giants Manager Gabe Kapler. About the State of America, I guess. And his choice to not take the field for the National Anthem. Kapler wrote a, a long and I think well-thought out and well-defended blog post about why he felt like he no longer wanted to come out onto the field for the National Anthem. Now we’re in this, we’re in this post Colin Kaepernick world where this is sort of a shorthand for a, a form of protest that, that is meant to widely criticize the state of something in our country is an anthem protest. And Kapler knows this, I think he discu- even discussed this a little bit in the blog post. It was immediately started, sort of part of the conversation after the fact that San Francisco Giants Manager, former San Francisco 49ers quarterback. And in this specific instance, Kapler was referring to the horrific school shooting that happened in Texas last week. And the fact that we seem to be at this point where politicians have no interest in ever addressing mass shootings in this country. And so Kapler, I’ll play a little bit of his audio here about why he felt that this was the proper way to, to address what’s going on right now.

KAPLER:  Yeah. I, I just don’t, I don’t plan on coming out for, for the anthem going forward until I feel like there’s, I feel better about the direction of our country. So that, that’ll be the step I don’t, I don’t expect it to, to move the needle necessarily. It’s just something that I feel strongly enough about to, to take that step. I think I, the rest of what I wrote, I think explains the rest of that. Yeah?

REPORTER:  [reporter asks question]

KAPLER:   I was having a hard time articulating my thoughts, the day of the shooting, and the day we went out there on the line. And sometimes for me, it takes me a couple of days to put everything together. I knew I was, I knew that I was not in my best space mentally. And I knew that it was in connection with some of the hypocrisy of standing for the National Anthem and how it coincided with a moment of silence. And how those two things didn’t sync up well for me, but I wasn’t quite sure. I, I couldn’t make sense of it in real time [24:46]–

BOBBY:  This is sort of I- it’s tough to talk about this. Because on the one hand, I think a well-considered protest in sports is a very powerful thing. On the other hand, I think when, when someone in sports organizes a protest, particularly someone on the management side organizes a protest. I have, I reserve some skepticism for what the actionable item is from that protest. And that’s not even to say that all protests needs to have a, a direction that you’re trying to lead in. Because I don’t, I don’t think that’s true, I think you can protest from a, a place of anger, from a place of fear, from a place of sadness. And you don’t necessarily know what you want to do or to come out of this protest. Especially at the beginning, and it might evolve into something more. But I think, I, I bring a healthy skepticism to when someone comes out and wants to protest in this way. Because, ultimately, what are you trying to accomplish? And what are you willing to do to accomplish that, aside from this form of protest. And with Kapler, unfortunately, that, that reservation was pretty quickly confirmed when just earlier today, as we sit here and record this on Sunday, he said that he would still come out for the anthem on Memorial Day, because he felt like that’s a special kind of day in this country. And he didn’t want to disrespect the anthem, on Memorial Day, versus other days. And, and I don’t want to crush Kapler too hard, because I think he is probably a person, I think he’s very likely a person who is deeply affected by what’s going on in our country. And I think that he wants to use his platform, to affect change, and to bring attention and awareness and make people feel uncomfortable. Which was the initial point of the Colin Kaepernick anthem protest. But then when you immediately are like, I’m going to come out and stand with my hand over my heart during God Bless America, I’m going to come out during the National Anthem on Memorial Day, it just feels like a, a little bit of an on the fence protest.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Upon joined–

ALEX:  If you’re carving out exceptions for your protest like–

BOBBY:  Within less than a week of when you started it. It’s–

ALEX:  –like you could argue that the, the protests on Memorial Day means more for precisely the reason that he is sa- saying, right? Precisely because it is deemed such a patriotic day. There’s room for you to have impact there, right? And you’re going to ruffle some feathers, you absolutely are. Do not go over to Fox News, and see what they’re saying about Gabe Kapler right now, right? Like, like, all- right, dipshits are having a meltdown over this. But it just strikes me as, as maybe not being so resolute in your principles, as you initially set them out to be. Like the point of protest is to make a scene, to make people uncomfortable, right? If you, if, if your protest is not actively flying in the face of power, flying in the face of tradition, it, it, it’s probably not doing what it set out to do. You know, does that make sense?

BOBBY:  Yeah. And if you dig under it a little bit more. The point of protesting is to disrupt something. You’re either disrupting the, the normal flow of traffic in a city, as you march and, and get your point across about whatever that is. Or you marched to someone’s, you marched to the Mayor’s house and try to affect change that way. And in baseball, what, what is Gabe Kapler trying to disrupt by doing these protests, he’s trying to disrupt the normalcy of playing the National Anthem. The, the routine that we do in this country, which is playing the National Anthem, before every single sporting event. And now, a lot of people who are not from the United States think that that is very weird that we do that. I think that I count myself among that camp of people. And, and by protesting during the Anthem by not coming out, and then saying that what you’re doing is, this is an act of protests. There’s not another reason that you’re not coming out during the National Anthem. You’re trying to disrupt that so that people think, well, why is he doing that? Then you could provide them an explanation. And then let them, let them sit with that explanation. And let them think critically about what you’re upset about. Which I don’t question that Gabe Kapler’s is truly upset about the state of our country as everybody should be. But then when you don’t do it, arguably, like you said, on a day where this routine is centralized as much as any other day on the calendar, except maybe July 4, the patriotism shown on Memorial Day during baseball games, is at the level of Independence Day is as central to the broadcast as it is during Independence Day. Then when you don’t do it on that day. Well, then you have to wonder how disruptive Gabe Kapler is really willing to be from his position of power. You have to wonder how much, how much comfort he’s willing to sacrifice in order to make other people uncomfortable. I hope that he, I mean, we’re recording this on Sunday, we won’t know what actually comes of it. I hope that he turn, I hope that he reneged on this, and hope that he actually does continue the protest on–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –Memorial Day, but I don’t know if he will.

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s well put. And I think that the, I think that the points that he laid out in his blog post on, on why he was making this decision still ring true, right? You know, he–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –it’s a, it’s a questioning of the kind of blind jingoism that we participate in, when we stand for the National Anthem, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And a–

BOBBY:  And the exceptionalism, that it reinforces.

ALEX:  Right, a lack of questioning of, of what this country might actually stand for, and what we’re doing to backup those values outside of the baseball stadium. But like you said, if, if you’re only protesting when it’s convenient, I dare I say, that’s not a protest. That’s, it’s suggesting that you would like to draw more attention to yourself in that moment than the actual issues that you, you say you’re trying to draw attention to. And so again, I, I don’t want to condemn him at this point. It’s, it’s very early on. But when I was watching the, the Reds, when I was watching the Reds-Giants game this morning, and saw him standing with his, his hand over his heart for God Bless America in the seventh inning. I, I have to wonder what he was thinking about in that moment. Because the, the sentiments of that song are the exact same ones that run through the, the National Anthem.

BOBBY:  Even put- even more plainly, maybe.

ALEX:  Yes, exactly.

BOBBY:  Yes, I agree. Okay, Alex, let’s take a quick break. And then when we come back, our very fun conversation with Steve Sladkowski from PUP.

[32:08]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, Alex, first guest in a long time. We are very excited to be joined by Steve Sladkowski of PUP. Steve, how’s it going, man?

STEVE:  Good, you got my last name. That’s impressed, it’s a nice–

BOBBY:  Do–

STEVE:  –start.

BOBBY:  –do people mix it up a lot?

STEVE:  Oh, yeah!

BOBBY:  I though about, I thought about asking you how to pronounce it. But then I was like, it’s probably just phonetic. Like everything’s–

STEVE:  It is.

BOBBY:  –there on the page–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –man.

STEVE:  Yeah, I think a lot of people see like D and K next to each other in a like, and you’re then they’re like, nah, I can’t- those have to one of those has to be silent.

ALEX:  Right or there’s a sound in the middle there Slad- Sladkowski.

STEVE:  Yeah. Yeah, exactly. But, but no, Sladkowski is the one I get the most.

BOBBY:  Oh, they just get right over the K.

STEVE:  Yeah, there’s no K there.

BOBBY:  The invisible K.

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Well, Alex, I imagine you probably get people messing your name up a lot to earn school like with the extra E, Bazeley. Did you get that a lot?

ALEX:  Yeah, people, people did mess it up, do mess it up. More often the spelling though, than the, than actual pronunciation. It’s often just drop, dropping e, you know. Like the E carries over to after the Z or before the Z. It’s, it’s fine, it works.

BOBBY:  Steve, I don’t often read quotes that people have said or written down back to them when we’re interviewing them. But I want to tell you about the moment that we decided we wanted you to come on Tipping Pitches.

STEVE:  Okay.

BOBBY:  There’s an article in SPIN Magazine previewing the 2022 baseball season. And it is where you called the people who own baseball, greedy scumbags who hate the game, and its labor force. Can you tell us why you decided to use that platform to just take a, take a little swipe at MLB owners?

STEVE:  I don’t give a fuck, mostly. I think is the thing. I can swear, right?

BOBBY:  Yes, of course.

STEVE:  Yeah, I don’t know. But that whole, that, that lockout was so cynical. And I don’t know, I just think like, I’ve, I, Daniel from SPIN has been kind enough to even when I say shit like that, just be like, yeah, you should we should keep actually talking to you. So you know, I think, I think kind of part of that is also knowing that like, you know, it’s a safe kind of place to say it.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  But also I do think like, I think labor, it’s so easy to give a like, like Coles Notes version, or Sparks Notes, I think they’re called in the United States version of–

ALEX:  [34:45] Canadian

BOBBY:  [34:45] in Canada? Yeah, like what?

STEVE:  It was called, it was called Coles Notes.

BOBBY:  This is like breaking news!

ALEX:  Wow!

BOBBY:  Oh, shit!

STEVE:  Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, it’s like, it’s I feel like an introduction to like labor politics is so easy to be like, if, if someone likes baseball, you’re like, it’s very simple.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Owner bad, player good. Like, and then from there you can kind of answer all the questions that they might have. Like but he’s a millionaire. It’s like yeah, but he’s a billionaire.

ALEX:  Right.

STEVE:  Right, like–

BOBBY:  I’m having [35:15] next to all of our, all of our lockout discussions now, Alex.

STEVE:  Yeah. But yeah, I mean, that lock, it was so just like, you know, everyone loves transactions, and we were denied months of transactions because the owners were like, Yeah, I don’t know. I don’t think we make enough money that we should have more money. You know, and then you’re like, okay, cool, great. Yeah. After, after the two years that we’ve all gone through the idea here is ownership needs more money. I, that’s great. I love it.

ALEX:  Yeah, the, the lockout was, was obviously bad for many reasons. But it was, it was I think, largely bad for the owners because it gave baseball fans, like, like there was no distraction anymore.

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Right? Like we couldn’t be forced to just talk about Gerritt Cole’s con- contract or, or whatever it is, right? Or, or–

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Kevin Gausman go into the, the Jays or whatever, right? It was like–

STEVE:  Which I forgot, I literally forgot.

BOBBY:  Well it’s one thing when, you know, like, guys like me and Alex, who have a podcast about labor and baseball are just coming on here to take shots at owners. But then they’re getting in SPIN Magazine that, that must have been–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –when we decided like, oh, we gotta wrap this thing up. [36:25]

STEVE:  [36:26] Yeah, that was me. I, listen, I didn’t want to take credit for it.

BOBBY:  You did it, Steve. Thank you.

STEVE:  Someone, someone has to. Yeah, that’s right.

BOBBY:  Tell us about your, your baseball origin story. How did you, how’d you get so into the game?

STEVE:  Boy, yeah, one of my earliest kind of childhood memories is I’m in my 30s, I’m 34. So one of my earliest kind of childhood memories is the ’92-’93 World Series teams. And I was like a kid, like, you know, four or five kind of years old. But I was like watching with my grandmother. My dad played baseball for, for quite a competitive level. But it got to the point where my, my grandparents who were like immigrants to Canada couldn’t afford to. Like take him, he was playing for a team that was kind of playing closer to Windsor. Because I guess they had some affiliation with Detroit, and the Tigers. And they couldn’t afford to, like take him out there because they worked, you know, factory jobs, basically. And he coached a little bit when I was a kid, and I played and I played pretty competitively until I was about 18. Like, kind of knew that playing like, like rep state level, whatever.

BOBBY:  What’s the scouting report? What’s the what’s the quick elevator pitch for Steve’s?

STEVE:  I was a, high contact, high on base percentage, fast first baseman.

BOBBY:  Wow! Don’t see those all the time.

ALEX:  Flip in the narrative.

STEVE:  Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I like to tell people that like there’s not that that’s actually not that big of a difference between me and Joey Votto, really. If you think about it, like it’s not. You know, if you ignore all the big differences between us. But yeah, so, so you know, and then it was, it was a big bonding thing obviously, for my dad and I. Still is, we still go to games and watch games and all that stuff. And yeah, I mean, the Jays were kind of an in an interesting spot for a lot of like, my kind of adolescence and like teenage years. Where it was like a lot of those kind of like, the initial John Gibbons run, were like, you know, they were kind of a wild card team, and they were kind of good, but then it was like the Yankees and the Red Sox were just like the evil empire, like dual like evil empire. You know, so like, I remember, I got to watch Roy Halladay pitch day in and day out for a, a, a decade, you know?

BOBBY:  Quite a treat.

STEVE:  Like, basically–

BOBBY:  Quite a treat.

STEVE:  –the whole time he- yeah, yeah.

ALEX:  Pitch boy.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  It was awesome. You know, and it’s like still–

BOBBY:  Throwing complete game, complete game shout outs on a team that wins 70 games ever year.

STEVE:  Yeah, like, like his complete game. Like one nothing losses. Yeah, it was, you know, like, I remember like the Vernon Wells contract. I remember Lyle Overbay first baseman I remember. Troy [39:11]–

ALEX:  [39:11] remember some guys

STEVE:  –Scott Rolen? Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I’m, it’s, it’s you know, David Roth has been like, oh, you remember some guys okay, that’s–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  –you can, you can hang.

BOBBY:  It’s nice when, it’s nice when the, the king accepts you into his realm. And he says David Ross like you can remember some guys.

STEVE:  Yeah, you ever might remember too many guys like John McDonald, you know. We’re gonna get weird but like, basically the like angry J’s is what we call them. The when they had the black jerseys.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Josh towers. But you know, and, and then kind of, it’s sort of shifted into this kind of place of like, for a long time music was my hobby, or like, you know, when I was in school, I did my degree in music. And, you know, nobody, there’s no one I personally want to hang out with less than someone who can only talk about one thing. And I feel–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  –like I feel like I, I got to that point in my life where music had was such a huge part of my life. Both from kind of like doing my education standpoint, and then as PUP kind of started to, to grow. I was like, I can’t, I cannot be that guy. And so that kind of brought me back in to baseball kind of in the last 10, 12 years, not that I was ever out of it. But, but just being like, oh, this absence of hobby can be filled by being into baseball again. And it was kind of just as the Jays were starting to make that, that sort of turnaround with, with Jose Bautista and Edwin Encarnacion and you know, that sort of era. So it was kind of a nice as the city was kind of coming up you know, something like Drake when take care came out renting out the Sky Dome wearing that old the black Jays cap. Like in, in that music video, you know, it all it kind of was a nice, a nice way to enjoy the city and enjoy time hanging out with my parents and friends while I was kind off the road.

ALEX:  Now, are you, when you got to be, because PUP is currently on tour. You guys are on a bit of a break right now. But you–

STEVE:  Yup!

ALEX:  –you’re, I believe you’re headed across the world next, right?

STEVE:  Yes.

ALEX:  So are you–

STEVE:  Feels insane, wild [41:29]–

ALEX:  Weird thing to say. Yeah.

STEVE:  Yeah, it’s, it’s yeah. Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  How much are you really able to kind of like, stay up to date when you’re, when you’re on the road? Like, are you, are you on a bus like checking score updates when you, when you come offstage, is it more casual?

STEVE:  No, like it’s kind of nice, actually. Like, I haven’t been BTV. And some of the buses that we’ve been on ever had a satellite, which is crazy. But you know, they have the baseball packages and stuff usually on those. Because the drivers tend to want to watch the for the bands they have on our sports fans. So yeah, I’ve been able to follow the Jays and you know, in headlining slots most of the time like in North America, we’re not on until close to 10pm.

BOBBY:  Right.

STEVE:  So if the Jays are on the East Coast, like I can sit and like, watch the game kind of after dinner. And then you know, even my bandmates who are not like particularly avid baseball fans by any means. One of the cool things about kind of traveling, especially in the United States. Traveling around is sort of like, there’s a lot of Minor League Baseball, just on a day off, you know. You might be, might be in a town somewhere and you’re like, oh, it’s actually a 20-minute drive to the stadium or whatever, we can go see a team. We’re gonna go try and see the Indianapolis Triple-A team, when we’re there and you know, kind of, yeah, just keep an eye out. Dan, our tour managers is a big baseball fan of St. Louis Cardinals guy, so he’s also someone where like, whenever we need something from him in, in his office, he’s got the Cardinals game on and he and I are able to kind a. Yeah, which funnily enough, we weren’t roasting each other the last two days even though the the Jays and Cardinals were playing. Because mostly we’re just like, I’m gonna see you in a week like we just need some time away from each other [43:09]. But, yeah.

BOBBY:  I love the idea of a seventh inning bullpen blow up like ruining the first couple songs of your set. Has that happened–

STEVE:  Oh, yeah.

BOBBY:  –to you before?

STEVE:  No, like, I would say probably the, the worst, the most like agonizing was during the Jays second run to the LCS when they lost to Cleveland a couple years ago. Like having to go on, those games starting a little bit later. Because they’re–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  –like national broadcast–

BOBBY:  Like natio–

STEVE:  –games.

BOBBY:  Yeah, primetime.

STEVE:  And it was just like, I, nah, you can’t do this to me, you know, but like, no, there’s nothing that the Jays, I feel like at this point there’s nothing that Jays could do.

BOBBY:  Much actully played a fed up version tonight, guys. We’re gonna play–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –30 minutes.

STEVE:  Yeah, I’m bringing my phone on stage. And there are no refunds like I’m sorry, I don’t know what to tell you. Like–

ALEX:  To shout out score updates to me please.

STEVE:  Yeah, people have done that people in Boston.

BOBBY:  That’s cool.

STEVE:  When we were there. People were people were telling us to score the leafs game, you know. And it’s one of those funny things where like, you don’t want to make it about I feel like there’s still this idea that the like, there’s like that. It’s like, sometimes I feel like people think it’s still a John Hughes movie. You know, you’re like, oh, like they’re the jocks, and the jocks can’t be rockers, and the rockers can’t be preppy. And you’re like, everything is bad for everyone. Like I don’t know why we’re trying to distinguish between any of this stuff, you know, I think like–

BOBBY:  Right.

STEVE:  –I think it’s, it’s, it’s fine to have people who like rock bands also be into sports and not in fact, especially in baseball, we need all the non douchebags that both in the sport and outside of sport. Whom who we could possibly get at this point.

BOBBY:  I feel like there’s a, there’s a healthy crossover between baseball fans and fans of not only just PUP, but like kind of this entire music scene that PUP lives in. Like, based–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –on just the people that we’ve met through doing this podcast. Like, I don’t know what it is. But Alex and I were talking about this on the way to your show in New York City. But is it just that like baseball fandom is pain? And punk rock music just expresses that pain or what?

STEVE:  I mean, I, you know, in terms of like, being emotionally wrecked by something that doesn’t particularly like have any effect on your day to day life. Music and, and like baseball and that kind of punk rock roll probably have a lot in common. You know, I don’t know, I don’t know what it is, I think, I think there’s also just something like, maybe, maybe it’s pleasant, you know, just in terms of like, the, the length of time like, there’s a lot of downtime–

BOBBY:  Yeah.STEVE:  –that a baseball game, I feel like Phil’s the same way that if you’re in home on a Sunday, like, having a game on a radio, even like or on the TV. But also like, I know that these are very niche things, but you know, I, I, it’s yeah, I, I think probably it’s the emotionally crushing reality of it. Like I think you’re reading, I think your reading is right, you know.

ALEX:  I think, I think there’s also a sense there of, you know, a kind of political ethos that probably ties a lot of it together, right? We’re obviously in a very, you could call it a bubble of, of like–

BOBBY:  You keep doing this thing, or keep, like doing the echo chamber spiel, that feels like it lives in 2018. But I love this for you. You’re coming to it in 2022.

ALEX:  While we’re still here.

BOBBY:  That’s fair.

ALEX:  You know, I’d like of like vaguely, like lefty, like online, baseball–

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –people, right? And it feels like, you know, especially like punk music is very kind of rooted in that, like wearing your heart on your sleeve of like, politics, right?

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And, and that’s certainly I think, something that, that you guys have brought to your music, right? I think I said, I wouldn’t even call it, call it undertones on the most recent record. There’s a lot about corporate overlords, right? Thanking of the sponsors, right? So it’s certainly not something you, you guys have shied away from in your music. And I get the sense that like, I think there’s probably a lot of fans who, who can appreciate that and maybe have the same concerns about, about baseball as they have about the rest of the world.

STEVE:  Yeah, I mean, I appreciate that. Thank you. You know, I think, I think it is kind of a thing, like just even off the top being like it is a very accessible kind of entry point into talking about labor, talking about some of these kind of political things, unionization. Which, I mean, those T shirts you, you to have made are amazing. But you know, I think like, it’s, it’s also one of those things where, for every example, we could probably hold up to support that. There are a bunch of examples we can hold up within both of those worlds that completely negate it, right? But I do think like, being able to kind of show that it’s easier than you think to kind of unlearn some of the worst behaviors of like a, a sports fan or have like, a kind of thoughtless concert going douchebag you know. Like, and actually, like, it’s, there’s totally a space for people to feel like safe and welcomed and, and have a kind of progressive worldview while still enjoying this game. Even though, you know, at its most kind of fundamental level it like, re creating the kind of culture of capitalism is something that has to be dealt with, in some way, you know. Like, but that doesn’t mean like, well, like what the new like, what can you enjoy at that point?

BOBBY:  Exactly.

STEVE:  Like, you know, I don’t know.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you just kind of have to like hold space that you’re also allowed to like, to like this thing and enjoy this thing.

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And just because you do and put your money towards it, so that you can enjoy it. It’s not your fault. Like–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –what you said about, you know, touring and being in a lot of minor league towns. I think strike, struck a chord with me because that how differently is Minor League Baseball, in all these small different places. Then, like a, a big tour, or like a tour that you go on, when you’re early in your career where you’re going to all of these small towns. Like you’re doing it for a few 100 people. Minor League Baseball players are putting on an exhibition for a few 100 people. And ostensibly like they’re doing it so that they can get called up to the majors. This are a lot of bands doing it so they can play bigger venues and, and have more fans and get to make more music and that kind of thing. And–

STEVE:  Yes!

BOBBY:  I, I do think there is sort of a communal aspect to this to things. That maybe makes it more of an obvious linkage for why you might like both then it would appear on its face.

STEVE:  Totally! And I think even like you know even something as kind of like there was that post about the food, right? the the minor league Are some of the meals that they were getting. And that’s like not so different from some of the stuff that we’ve encountered when the, when the venue is like, we have food for you.

BOBBY:  Here’s a blank slice of Bologna on two pieces of [50:11]–

STEVE:  Yeah, right? Like, you know, like, here’s pasta that we like the with, there’s the tomato sauce is actually ketchup, right? Like, whatever. I, I do think that you kind of anywhere where you can kind of pull that curtain back, whether it be you know, in some of those songs that kind of we worked on with a new record or, or kind of post like that, where you’re like, here’s the reality.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  You know, I, I, I think it’s good. I think it makes people appreciate both. What it takes to kind of get to a level where you are playing in front of 1000s of people. Whether that’s on the field or on a stage and also kind of like, just like how, how exploitive by kind of nature these industries are.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, definitely.

BOBBY:  Alex has assembled a Spreadsheet of Walk-Up Songs and sing as you are a musician. We do want to ask you about Walk-Up Songs. Before we do, can we talked about your walk-out song in the New York City show, which was Heart Of A Champion by Nelly. How do you guys, how do you guys select music like that? Is it the same process that you think that, do you think it’s the same process as a baseball player selecting a walk-up song?

STEVE:  Yeah, I mean, sometimes we will, we’ll do things like that are a little bit more tied to the performance. So you know, for, for a while they’re walking on to Rambo rock. We had figured out that it was, it ended on a chord that was relative to the opening of morbid stuff.

BOBBY:  Ohh, okay.

STEVE:  So, so we would like hit the end chord in time with the walk-on music and then start more of a, you know, so there’s some some of that.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  And then I think other times, there’s just stuff that we think is really goofy that like, doesn’t go over well. Like, do you remember that, like, YouTube clip that went, went viral? That was like, the 20th Century Fox theme, but someone played it shittily on a flute–

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

STEVE:  –remember that? We like we like thought it would be so funny to walk-out to that. And people were just like, what the fuck are you doing? Like, you know, so sometimes it’s, it’s about like, trying to sync it as part of this kind of show. And, and as part of the production and other times, it’s just like, who’s got the dumbest idea? Which like, still to, to, to, to me is not dumber than what Ben Zobrist did. Like–

BOBBY:  Which was what?

STEVE:  Had his wife song.

BOBBY:  Oh. Oh. Oh, oh.

STEVE:  And it was so fucking bad, it’s so, that song is so bad. I can’t believe.

ALEX:  Well, it makes it even worse, knowing that the context around–

STEVE:  Absolutely.

ALEX:  –what happened to it.

STEVE:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  I feel like 45% of walk-out songs, walk-up songs and baseball are pretty, pretty bad. Like they’re just like, you know, the wrong part of a country song.

STEVE:  Yeah, yeah I mean–

BOBBY:  45% of the time, you know?

STEVE:  Like that, that was the thing about like, I think Jose Bautista did it so well, walking out to Drake, right? It was right at that time when like, you know, trophies and, and big rings. Like, sometimes it’s just like, a guy like Bautista is like, I know, this is my city! Like, even though this is a hockey town, this is my city, you know? And like, here’s how because I’m the guy walking into Drake. Like, stuff like that sometimes it’s really compelling and I think, I think is great, you know. But then it was like yeah, Justin Smoak would walk-out to like, the just worst country song.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  So [53:40] a curveball.

ALEX:  I appreciate when the players put, you know, a similar level of like, thought into it as, as you guys might, you know, walking out to a song or you can turn the chords or something like that. Or, or–

BOBBY:  Or one that will remind everybody of, of their high school lifting playlist like Heart Of A Champion.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Well, like well, like you have like, like Bay Area players who are like walking out to like back Dre, right.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like oh, like shout out you know? Or, or, or Yu Chang on the Cleveland Guardians walking out to Crank That Soulja Boy, right?

STEVE:  Right.

ALEX:  Because it has that like opening you know, it’s like this is, you, you put just the right amount of thought into it. But like what, what makes the, the ideal walk-up song for you? You know, is it like, like, if, if you’re a baseball player or even back in your baseball player days, right? Because I know this is something that everyone who has ever played baseball has, has thought about at some point.

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  What is what is the kind of thing that like really gets you, gets you in the mood?

STEVE:  I, I feel like it has to be up tempo or it has to be something that just like, like, I think the ultimate thing is like having something that is now associated. Because it’s like no one can use Enter Sandman anymore, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Like, like that is that is like the ultimate where you’re like, you are so good and people are so afraid of you that your song can’t be used in baseball anymore. Because if someone were to use Enter Sandman it like–

BOBBY:  [55:18] valor–

STEVE:  –[55:19]

ALEX:  They get, they get [55:20]

STEVE:  Yeah. I think people saw that I’m driving in New York City, right? Like, like, uhm, you know, so I think that’s kind of the thing as to what, like now [55:28] I supposed to give you one here?

BOBBY:  Well if you want and you don’t need–

STEVE:  [55:32]

BOBBY:  –to be put on the spot too much. But–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –you had thought about it, you had to have thought about it.

STEVE:  I’m trying to think like, I do think it would be something like very nerdy, right? Like, like it would be like a, it’d be like Rush or something. You know, it’d be–

BOBBY:  Oh, nice.

STEVE:  –like something like Titanicly just like he’s walking out to YYC it’s been like seven. And there’s it’s an instrumental and like–

ALEX:  Right.

STEVE:  –tet tet, tet tet–

ALEX:  The audience can’t really bop their head to it, you know.

STEVE:  Like what the fuck? Like, it’s just like the like brain worms version of walking out to like journey or something, I don’t know. Like–

BOBBY:  Right. I think my answer at one point was Limelight, which I mean–

STEVE:  Right, there you go.

BOBBY:  –the rush song [56:14] the drums come in and everybody’s fuckin’ into it even if they don’t know the song.

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Yeah.

STEVE:  I, I my bandmates and I talked about this a little bit but like, you like to think that your, your tastes has sort of like as you’ve grown up, like evolved or changed?

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

STEVE:  And then you’re like, you know, for Stefan he was like, a be, yeah, but then My Chemical Romance and that’s a reunion tour.

BOBBY:  And I spend $300 per ticket, yes.

STEVE:  Well, he’s like, yeah, not only my like bothering our agent to be like, get me tickets for this, please. Also, I how do we open the show? Like this is all I want to do.

BOBBY:  Wait, if you’re going to open to My Chemical Romance show, can you please open the one in LA? I–

STEVE:  Yeah, I, I wish.

BOBBY:  –my ticket to LA. And it was supposed to be obviously for 2020 and they’ve now pushed it back to years. I no longer live in LA so I have to fly back [57:03] show.

STEVE:  Yeah, unfortunately, we won’t be opening any of the shows. But that’s okay. I’m going to, I choose to, to, to say that it’s not for any, any, any reason other than it just like it couldn’t happen.

BOBBY:  It just didn’t work out [57:20]

ALEX:  Right.

STEVE:  They want to not me being drunk once and telling Frank that I had never heard of My Chemical Romance. Well I did.

BOBBY:  Did you play a show with him?

STEVE:  We put, we did a tour with, with Frank in Thursday. Frank has like a solo band it was–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  –Thursday. And, and Frank, they, it was lovely, it was really fun tour. And at the last show I was like, I was like listen Frank. I don’t really know the band very well. And he, his wife was there, they thought it was hilarious. That I is goofy. There’s a lot of goofy stuff that’s happened like that where I’m like, ah, if I were an anxious person, this would be bad. Like, like yeah, I would be laying awake at night, like, fuck! You know, but no, no, we still, we still, yeah, Frank’s cool, Frank’s been real supportive in the DMs and, and, and whatever.

ALEX:  Is, is there a PUP song that you think would like fit well?

BOBBY:  Yeah, that was my next question.

ALEX:  As a–

STEVE:  Okay.

ALEX:  –as a walk-up song?

STEVE:  Ah, actually, when Mark Buehrle was still pitching for the Jays. There was a start that he had in Toronto, and they played Lionheart while he was walking–

ALEX:  Wow!

STEVE:  –off the field.

BOBBY:  Wow!

STEVE:  Which was cool. So yeah, apparently somebody in, in Jays game ops says yes. And, and maybe it’s Lionheart which is funny because it’s seven tweeted this the other day, it was like that, that song is not, those lyrics are nonsense. It was like going back. We were like, talking about old songs to try and learn and he was like, what the fuck? What was I thinking? You know, but yeah, no, yes. Lionheart res- I don’t know. I feel like I feel like it’s one of those funny things where like, again, people sort of are like, oh, you’re like a rock band that people like and you’ve been kind of upfront about enjoying sports. You know, whether that be like Stephen as big Leafs fan I wear Raptors jersey on stage for a long time, and then the Jays stuff, whatever. Surely the songs work in, in video games. Which is so funny, because like, I remember that as like a hallmark of like, The Show, right? Or like–

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

STEVE:  –EA Sports like NHL games and stuff.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  And it’s, it’s, it’s bizarre to now be like on the other side of that, where I’m like, Oh, I’m it like I’m in that’s, I’m there, that’s weird. And I don’t play these games anymore! That’s the funniest part.

BOBBY:  I know.

STEVE:  It’s like I, I don’t play video games anymore. And was never really into that.

BOBBY:  The two of us play enough for all three of us, so– It’s funny, it’s interesting question about the walk-up song. Because you obviously want to please the crowd. There’s 40,000 people there. They don’t have to enjoy the song that’s, that’s an important part of a walk-up sign. It’s not just for you, you know, it’s not like your headphones before the game. But you also want to get hyped for your, your at bat. But you also want to seem like kinda cool, you know? Like, you don’t–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –want to pick the most obvious song. You want to pick like the third or fourth most obvious song.

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So that everybody–

STEVE:  No, it’s true.

BOBBY:  –still knows it. But everybody knows that you didn’t choose, you know, like, Headline by Drake or so [1:00:21].

STEVE:  Yeah. I feel like, I feel like there. There’s like a good like subsection I’m trying to think of who it was on the Jays. But there’s like, anytime there’s like a good sense of humor.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Like, where they’re like playing something that’s obviously ridiculous. So they’re kind of like taking the piss out of it a little bit. The crowd kind of gets it. And you’re like, and you probably liked this song. And you think like, yeah, it is funny that I’m walking out to, you know, a Space Cowboy by Kacey Musgraves or something. But like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

STEVE:  –you know, like, I don’t know, you know, like. But yeah, I, I, I do think there’s, there’s that angle that can be taken.

BOBBY:  Yeah, Wilmer, Wilmer Flores walking out to the Friends theme song because that was–

STEVE:  Exactly!

BOBBY:  –’cause I know him, that was [1:01:05]

STEVE:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Well like, like Josh Reddick for the longest time walked out to Careless Whisper–

STEVE:  Right.

ALEX:  –by George Michael, like yeah.

STEVE:  That’s what I was trying, that’s the one I was trying to think of. I was like, it’s, it’s someone from Oakland and not Houston, that push them up [1:01:16]. Like, yeah, yeah, Reddick, that was it, that was it.

ALEX:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Because then they–

ALEX:  Yeah.

STEVE:  –would do the sax thing and, you know. Yeah.

ALEX:  Right. And then it becomes a bit and it kind of takes–

STEVE:  Exactly!

ALEX:  –on a life a lifestyle zone–

STEVE:  Exactly.

ALEX:  –right?

STEVE:  Yeah, yeah.

ALEX:  We, we need more of that in baseball, and music.

STEVE:  Yeah. It’s a bit more doing bits,

ALEX:  More bits.

BOBBY:  We don’t need more bits here. But in Baseball [1:01:38]

STEVE:  Yeah, in baseball, we do. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Alex, what are the, what are the big takeaways for you putting together this Spreadsheet of walk-up songs? Do we can have Steve analyze them and decide where the music industry is headed because of this.

STEVE:  Oh, my God.

ALEX:  Well, big, lots of lots of Kanye representation–

STEVE:  Okay.

ALEX:  –obviously. He’s the most represented among walk, walk-up songs. I mean, I think maybe not what struck me because this is if you think about it, it makes sense. But just because of the disproportionate representation of Latin American players in baseball, there’s like a lot of Latin music, right? Like, like Daddy Yankee is in–

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah yeah yeah.

ALEX:  –the top 5, and bad bunny. I mean, in some of their songs are just, like, perfectly suited to–

STEVE:  Yes.

ALEX:  –like, get you in the mood, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah, like the instant hook of them. Yes.

ALEX:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Well, and, and it’s so obvious, like, sorry, I don’t mean to cut up but it’s like–

ALEX:  No no no, go.

STEVE:  –there was a summer there were this sort of like, Columbia kind of backbone of like, Latin American pop music was, you know, like, Despacito was a huge song.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  Not because of Bieber.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Right.

STEVE:  Right? It was because–

BOBBY:  The version without him was playing–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –everywhere [1:02:54] too.

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

STEVE:  And it’s because of like, there’s such a like a deep appreciation of dancing in a, in a lot of kind of like, Spanish language pop music that, that it just crosses over so naturally.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Yeah. Yoan Moncada walks out to his own song, which I, I just I deeply admire that.

BOBBY:  He’s trying to get more Spotify plays.

STEVE:  Well this is the thing is like you if most at the arena level, most of them do have to pay out royalties.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Right. 

STEVE:  So like, that is kind of like a goofy–

BOBBY:  Is this is a CBA violation?

ALEX:  This move–

STEVE:  Yeah, right. Like but like, Yoan’s double dipping, for sure. And he should double dip, you know?

BOBBY:  Wow. Is this way, is Yoan Moncada want he got his own song actually practice?

STEVE:  Yeah, exactly. There we go. That’s, that feels like a Patreon only bone. Like that’s a bonus episode, maybe? That’s a little deep.

ALEX:  Yeah. The rest of the list is probably I, as relatively boring as you can imagine, right? Like, like Drake’s up there too. Drake, Drake’s–

STEVE:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  –in the, in the top five. There, there are some players who walk-out to like VOB.

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  And, and like all-time low.

STEVE:  Yeah, we have to remember that–

ALEX:  You are just living your, your best 2007 life right now.

BOBBY:  Well think about it. Like we’re 26 Alex, the, the MLB peak is 27. So a lot of the guys who make up the bell curve of Major League Baseball right now. We’re in middle school at the same time as us.

STEVE:  They’re hitting–

BOBBY:  So–

STEVE:  –nostalgia, they’re hitting the nostalgia window.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. There’s maybe–

STEVE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –there’s gonna be a pop punk wave for walk-out song soon.

STEVE:  Let’s go. Yeah, let’s go.

BOBBY:  Just sitting there waiting.

STEVE:  Yeah. I think who ever the 15-year old kid that likes PUP and throws somehow throws 80 miles an hour and can throw a changeup and a slider.

ALEX:  Well we’ll start, we’ll start working on that campaign.

BOBBY:  We should make that our mission. Yeah.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Put that on the shirt or something we could sell that on our merch store. Walk-up to a PUP saw.

STEVE:  That’s right.

BOBBY:  I think Losing My Religion is now my walk-up song. Now that we’ve talked it through and now that I’ve thought about it, I think that that–

STEVE:  Wow.

BOBBY:  –might go to that. That’s just instantly recognizable.

STEVE:  But like, not, not like any like not it’s the end of the world, as we know it, like–

BOBBY:  Well, yeah.

STEVE:  –there, there’s a lot. Like R.E.M. was on the other day and like I was in the hardware store or something. And I was like, oh, yeah, this one. And I feel like R.E.M. is one of those bands where I’m like, damn!

BOBBY:  Whatever the last song that you heard from them, you’re like, this is their masterpiece, basically.

STEVE:  Yeah. Yeah. Like Radio Free Europe, hell yeah! I want!

BOBBY:  All right. Well see, we don’t want to take up the rest of your evening. You’ve been so gracious with your time and we’ve, we’ve enjoyed talking to you so much. We want to let you, let people know where they can come see PUP, if you’re coming through their cities, potentially.

STEVE:  Oh, sure. Yeah.

ALEX:  I here you guys dropped an album recently.

STEVE:  We did.

BOBBY:  You can find the album that you are currently touring.

STEVE:  Find it in record stores and on internet streaming services. You there are some of you listening who will probably steal it, that’s probably fine. I don’t get too mad about it now because I’m sort of living in the aftermath of the music industry that I helped create by being an avid Napster user, so I can’t get so mad. But you should pay for your content, all that to say, we will be on the road starting next week. I have to look up where we’re going. Because I don’t know what date it is. I was on time for this though. And that’s a win. Yeah, we’ll be next, next month we’re in throughout kind of the Midwest and a little bit in the South. We’re in Cleveland, in Royal Oak, get in Cincinnati, in Milwaukee. Some Major League Baseball towns, Indianapolis, Kansas City.

BOBBY:  Cincinnati, I can recommend the PUP show instead of a Reds game.

STEVE:  [1:07:00]

BOBBY:  So it’s gonna be more entertaining, and better [1:07:03]

STEVE:  My fiance’s family is going to be at that show. So please come and just make it seem like it’s really a great. Yeah, we’ll be in Nashville and then we’ll be kind of back in the United States this, this fall. We’ll be all over the place in Europe in Australia. It still feels those flights are booked, I know I’m going but it feels weird. And then if you want to see me tweet deranged things about Major League Baseball see me that read I suppose is more. It’s a podcast. It’s an audio medium. I’m @sladkow, s-l-a-d-k-o-w. As we kind of said at the beginning. And PUP band is around on, on the internet as well.

BOBBY:  Alright, Steve Sladkowski from PUP, go check out PUP’s, all their music, their new record their old records all of it. If they’re coming through your town, consider going to their concert. It’s a great time, Alex and I had quite a bit of fun. Steve, thanks so much for coming on Tipping Pitches, man.

STEVE:  Thanks, thanks for having me. I’m, I’m sure I’ll see you guys again soon.

[1:08:13]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, thank you to Steve. Thank you to PUP for putting on a wonderful show. They’re coming through your town and you like their music, or you think you might like their music. Check out the new record. Let me check them out in concert. What a fun time to get back to live music. Thank you also Alex to five more members of our Alex Rodriguez VIP Club tier on Patreon. Those five members this week are Mike, Justine, Neil, Kyle, and Tony. Five of many who have signed up for that top tier. We’re so thankful for everybody’s support. As a reminder, that top tier gets you access to the Tipping Pitches Slack. At Tipping Pitches yearly holiday card. Tipping Pitches live Q&A. A Tipping Pitches Newsletter. Just, just so much Tipping Pitches for you. And it’s just $12 a month, if you have it to spare and if not, those other two tears are there for you. $5, $7, whatever you can contribute. And if you can’t, that’s okay too. Listening is all we really need and all we really asked from you. And maybe sharing it with a friend, telling them hey, you might like this podcast you. I liked this podcast, you might like this podcast too.

ALEX:  The real, the real Patreon is the, the friends that we made along the way, you could say.

BOBBY:  No, the real Patreon is the patreon.com\tippingpitches where you can sign up and give us money so that we could maybe do this podcast full time one day. That’s the real Patreon. But, but the metaphorical Patreon is the friends we made along the way.

ALEX:  Yes, so always, you can find us wherever you get your podcasts. If you’d like to call in with a listener question. Drop us a voicemail at 785-422-5881. You can also slide into our DMs on Twitter @tipping_pitches. Or if you go on for the long form question, shoot us an email tippingpitchespod@gmail.com.

BOBBY:  Thank you everyone for listening. We’ll be back in your feeds in one week.

[1:10:29][Music]

[1:10:38][Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Sponsored Content
 
Before you renew Amazon Prime, read this
Before you renew Amazon Prime, read this Capital One Shopping | Sponsored
1 In 2 Mac Users Are Unaware Of This Mac Trick.
1 In 2 Mac Users Are Unaware Of This Mac Trick. MacKeeper | Sponsored
Do This if You Have Toenail Fungus (Try Tonight)
Do This if You Have Toenail Fungus (Try Tonight) Health Tips Journal | Sponsored
Posted bytippingpitchespodMay 30, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:nvenue, punk rock, pup, Tipping Pitches, toronto blue jays
Leave a comment on Intentional Walk-Up Songs (feat. Steve Sladkowski)	
Paradise Over Pavement

Alex and Bobby review Taylor Swift’s NYU commencement speech and reminisce on their own graduation memories, then frame Josh Donaldson’s comment towards Tim Anderson within the broader cultural divide facing MLB, as well as try and parse through the corruption charges casting a shadow over the Angels Stadium deal in Anaheim. Then they answer some listener questions about the stigma of the the starter-to-reliever pipeline, prime real estate when going to a ballpark, which umpires are best suited to throw a game, and more.

Links:

Sign up for the Tipping Pitches Patreon 

Buy Tipping Pitches merch 

Tipping Pitches, now on YouTube 

Songs featured in this episode:

Pleasure — “Bouncy Lady” • Pavement — “Cut Your Hair” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and, and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about? That’s amazing! That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, we’re starting this week with a quote. Are you ready for the quote?

ALEX:  Yeah, hit me with it.

BOBBY:  Quote, “We are led by our gut instincts, our intuition, our desires and fears, our scars and our dreams. You will screw it up sometimes, so will I. And when I do, you will most likely read about it on the internet. Hard things will happen to us. We will recover. We will learn from it. We will grow more resilient because of it.” Alex, that quote came from none other than Taylor Swift. At the New York University graduation at Yankee Stadium last week.

ALEX:  Taylor Swift, NYU commencement, Yankee Stadium, concocted in a lab to get us to talk about this on Tipping Pitches.

BOBBY:  Right, exactly. It has almost nothing to do with baseball. But the people wanting to know how we felt about it. So I’ll turn it to you, did you spend all of Wednesday watching Taylor Swift’s commencement speech streamed live over the Internet?

ALEX:  I think I watched the first 10 minutes. I, I quickly realized that commencement speeches are oftentimes not actually very interesting. I mean, we had Justin Trudeau so I suppose I can’t really talk.

BOBBY:  A great point. Do you remember a single thing that Justin Trudeau said?

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  [1:53]

ALEX:  I remember, uhh, no, I don’t. But I remember, but I remember some parents were, were just blown away.

BOBBY:  Yeah, they were really into Justin.

ALEX:  Yep.

BOBBY:  Justin Trudeau. I don’t remember anything he said either. Presumably, like whatever the most liberal hopes and dreams bullshit that you can concoct in your head right now. It’s like a 95% chance that he said that at our commencement speech, but nothing really stands out. Weird day, it was like raining. We were late to our own graduation because of the trains. Suffice to say not as nice as a beautiful, sunny day. And Taylor Swift being a commencement speaker. We got ripped off.

ALEX:  We did, we got really ripped off. And I believe that graduates going back to 2020 were allowed to attend this commencement.

BOBBY:  Right, we should have failed college for two more years so that we could have attended this commencement.

ALEX  I, I, a quick Google search reveals that he talked a lot about, Trudeau talked a lot about fighting our tribal mindset.

BOBBY:  Ooh, oooh!

ALEX:  Quite a few uses of the, the word tribe in his speech, which, if you have any working knowledge over say indigenous peoples complex relationship with Justin Trudeau–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –and, and Canada. Maybe you might take, take issue with that. He told us to get out of our bubble.

BOBBY:  Oh, I remember this now. It’s all coming back to me, right?

ALEX:  Yup, yup!

BOBBY:  Where he was kind of like, you guys are a bunch of snowflakes.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  He is playing to the parents, for sure–

ALEX:  He was kind of like nagging us, right?

BOBBY:  –in our commencement speech. But this was like the peak of of 2018 echo chamber discourse.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Where every politician was like, using whatever medium they were speaking in to kind of talk at Trump.

ALEX  Yeah. Right. It was like we, we must reach across the divide, right? Like, put aside our, our own.

BOBBY:  How did we get here?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Where we’re so mad at–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –each other?

ALEX:  Exactly, exactly. Diversity to a, to a common cause, right? That’s what we should be bringing.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Him being like, life’s not going to be handed to you to a bunch of NYU grads. It’s really fucking funny, actually.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s like, good bit, Justin.

ALEX:  Yeah. Well, I mean, it’s–

BOBBY:  It’s like 75% of the people in the, in the stands, life was handed to them. And the person who handed it to them was also in the stands for their commencement.

ALEX  Exactly. I think you could also make the case that life may have been argued to the man standing on the stage delivering that speech.

BOBBY:  No, no, don’t Google Justin Trudeau dad. He definitely doesn’t have a Wikipedia page.

ALEX:  Well, if you, if you Google, Justin Trudeau dad, the half of the results will, will likely be about one Pierre Trudeau. The, the, the longtime politician in Canada. The, the other half of the results will be about his actual father, which is Fidel Castro. Google, Goo- please Google, I’m not, I’m not kidding–

BOBBY:  I know, I know, I know.

ALEX:  It’s a real, is a real–

BOBBY:  It’s a real conspiracy theory. A good one too.

ALEX:  It is a good one. There’s–

BOBBY:  What, what would you rate [5:09] 1 out of 10?

ALEX  I’m gonna give it like a, like a 7.8, Best New Music, pretty good, you know?

BOBBY:  Yeah. That’s, that’s delightful. Anything from Taylor Swift speech that you, you think speaks to what we’re trying to do here, Alex? You know, Swifties are not well.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  They’re not okay in the head. They think every time Taylor Swift says something. It’s like coded language for some album drop.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Or some drama that happened in the past or something like that. So I’m asking you to apply that mindset to our podcasts. Was there anything that she said that was sort of tipping you off that she was interested in coming on our show? Or that she was gonna make us a new theme song or anything like that?

ALEX:  I mean, she–

BOBBY:  Because I didn’t watch any of this–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –about Taylor.

ALEX:  She did, she did say that cringe is unavoidable. Which maybe that’s the coded language that she’s coming on the show?

BOBBY:  No! Come on! We’re not that cringe. We can be cringe sometimes.

ALEX  She says, embrace cringe. She said, she’s pretty sure the reason she’s here, giving a speech is because she wrote a song called 22.

BOBBY:  Which is a good joke, I guess?

ALEX:  Because you know–

BOBBY:  Because it was 2022>

ALEX:  –the year 2022.

BOBBY:  I don’t, maybe it was better in the context.

ALEX:  Never reach.

BOBBY:  Well, if someone was reading our jokes out of context, they might not be very funny. They might not, they might not even be funny in context, I don’t know. Okay, we have a, an interesting podcast ahead of us here. Excited to see how it goes. We have a bunch of listener questions at the end that we’re gonna get to. Plus Alex and I went to our first Minor League Baseball game together, ever. I don’t think we’ve ever been to one. No, you went into a Trenton-Thunder game with me, right?

ALEX  Nope, that’s a, a recurring memo- memory that you’ve concocted for yourself, yeah.

BOBBY:  I’m gonna say it so many times that you’re just going to start to doubt your own reality. This is like a seven year long gaslighting that I’m doing of you were like you were there.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  No, you, you were there. It was great. We had sunflower seeds. We heckled some players.

ALEX  Oh, right. And the one guy was pitching.

BOBBY:  Tim Tebow.

ALEX:  I mean, I mean, for a an extremely long period of time you were trying to convince me to go see the, the Binghamton Rumble Ponies where Tim Tebow was famously just carving out his place in New York Mets–

BOBBY:  New [7:25] so far, though, [7:27] insanely far. It’s like six and a half hours. No, I was trying to get you to come see him in Trenton, which is much closer spend 10 minutes from my childhood home.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But I guess you’re just a coward who came and then forgot that he came–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –to the game. Alex and I went to our first bite of the game. We’re going to talk about that briefly. And of course, we’re gonna shout out all the new patrons. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[7:54]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Okay, new patrons this week. Thank you very much to Jack, Samuel, Jess, Shawn, Lizzy, Megan, Stephen, and Steven. A little Stephen, Steven, back to back for you at the end there, Alex. If you haven’t been listening last couple of weeks or you don’t follow us on Twitter. You can sign up for our Patreon, patreon.com\tippingpitches. Finally getting that link right. We’ve been doing this long enough that I am now getting that link correct.

ALEX:  Yes sir!

BOBBY:  So it’s not tippingpitches.com\patreon. It’s patreon.com\tippingpitches, three tiers, a thank you tier, a mid market teams here and then a rod VIP club tier. All the tiers get you great stuff, including access to our Slack.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  Which is so active that Alex and I, we just can’t keep up with it. It’s just–

ALEX:  Y’ll, y’all going in.

BOBBY:  –everybody going so hard in the Slack and we love it. We’re happy that we don’t even need to be there to spur, debate, and discussion. Especially in our episodes discussion channel. Where people have a lot of strong feelings about our thoughts on whether certain players are cool or uncool. Thanks all those people who signed up. Alex, fresh off the heels of a beautiful, beautiful Minor League Baseball game that we attended yesterday.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  How does it feel to attend your second Minor League Baseball game with me?

ALEX  Did you really never come to see the Staten Island Yankees with me?

BOBBY:  No. No, I’ve never seen the Staten Island Yankees and other unaffiliated.

ALEX:  And now, you never will. Yeah.

BOBBY:  I never will. I hate independent baseball. It’s terrible. Must that money funnels directly to Rob Manfred salary? I refuse to watch it.

ALEX  Yeah, that’s fair. It was, it was great to be back. I mean, it was a great day for baseball that, that 85 degree heat really cooled down in the, in the evening.

BOBBY:  Right on the water there.

ALEX:  Yes, exactly.

BOBBY:  The little Atlantic Ocean.

ALEX  I love the Brooklyn Cyclones ballpark set against the, the backdrop of Coney Island and its, its amusement park festivities. The game was–

BOBBY:  It was a, it was a stinker.

ALEX:  –it was, yeah.

BOBBY:  Not the Cyclones best performance.

ALEX  But you know what you don’t, as, as I remarked last night, rarely are you really ever going to witness what we might refer to as good baseball?

BOBBY:  Yeah, you remarked that after they gave up five runs in the first inning, including a grand slam.

ALEX  Yes. Uh-hmm. And I, I think the starting pitcher didn’t make it out of the first.

BOBBY:  No, he did not.

ALEX:  That’s okay. We all have misses. 

BOBBY:  Yeah. I, I think the first thing I said to you when we walked in was, it sort of hard to overstate how much better of an experience Minor League Baseball is than Major League Baseball?

ALEX:  Yeah, like it’s kind of not close.

BOBBY:  So far superior.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And it’s been a while since I’ve been through a minor league game. I did not go to a lot of minor league games, while living in Los Angeles. Which I, which I actually regret, because there’s a lot of great Minor League Baseball in Southern California. But the feeling of walking into a minor league stadium where you feel like you can, you can actually walk around the whole stadium and get a feel for, like the ragtag group of people who put on a minor league game–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –you know. The attendants who are probably all, you know, grossly underpaid, and stuff like that–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –which is terrible. But it does feel a little bit, a lot, actually, a lot more personal than going into a major league game where you just feel targeted the whole time.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like the second you get in there, like trying to pick your pocket, essentially? And it’s not like stuff is necessarily cheap at minor league games, but it’s cheaper, relatively speaking.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And you just get so much closer to the fields, so much more family friendly environment, because it’s much more affordable for those families to attend. Like, there was a bunch of kids dancing around in the aisles during the game the entire time. It’s just a lot more fun. We should, we should go to a lot more cyclins games.

ALEX:  We should. Yeah. I, I think there was a question in the Slack this week. And, and I don’t remember who asked it, so apologies. But it was regarding between eating entertainment. And if, if we have favorite, favorite activities, contests, little games that are put on between innings in minor league games, which this is obviously a very popular in the, in the minor leagues. It’s, it’s always, it’s always goofy. Rarely is that ever something you actually get, get super into.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But uhm, but Cyclones do have some, some interesting ones. I think my favorite might be the, the toilet toss, I believe as it’s affectionately called, where they just they put out a plastic toilet. And they take two kids stand them about 25 feet away say. They each get a, get a plunger and they both get one toss to see who can get it closer and or into the toilet.

BOBBY:  It’s not a science, it’s an art.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  There’s no actual rules like you don’t actually have to make it into the toilet. It’s just whoever ends up closer wins.

ALEX:  Yeah, but can you imagine if, if a kid did?

BOBBY:  I mean, crowd go wild.

ALEX:  It, yeah.

BOBBY:  This feels like a nice time to plug our Unionize the Minors merchandise at the Tipping Pitches merch store, tippingpitches.myshopify.com. Or if you don’t feel like typing in all of those characters. You can just type in tiny.cc\nationalize, where you can, you can acquire a, a blue and orange Unionize the Minors shirt. We saw a few blue and orange Unionize the Minors shirts yesterday.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  As well as our other color palettes, the red one, you know? The orders are coming through still for the, the purple one. You just go there and you see whatever strikes your fancy.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  And whenever you want to buy, it doesn’t even have to be Unionize the Minors merch. But the Unionize the Minors merch, the proceeds go towards More Than Baseball. Which helps get minor leaguers stipends for housing and equipment and support their families that sort of thing. It’s been a while since we’ve done the full plug of the merch store. So I figured I would write here while we’re talking about Minor League Baseball. Any, any other, any other observations that you want to share with our listeners from our first Major League Baseball outing of the season, and our second overall?

ALEX:  Second all time.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  I respected the commitment to the bobblehead night, right? It was Francisco Alvarez–

BOBBY:  Oh, true. Yeah.

ALEX:  –bobblehead night. He’s not on the team–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –anymore. He was at one point.

BOBBY:  He was last year.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Come on. I’ve gotten Derek Jeter bobbleheads from the Trenton Thunder.

ALEX:  I know. I mean–

BOBBY:  And like the late 2000.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Have you’ve already won like four World Series by then.

ALEX:  I mean, there’s nothing more that minor league teams love than, than like celebrating players who have passed through.

BOBBY:  Right, exactly.

ALEX:  Right?

BOBBY:  Yeah. Like taking credit and a roundabout way for their career. Which you know what? It’s an important step in the process–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –for major league stars. Their, their first stop through Minor League Baseball, the Cyclones are a high a team. You know a lot of young prospects come in they’re wayward looking for they’re, looking for their spot in the organization.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, and it’s a rea–

BOBBY:  That’s make a name for yourself.

ALEX: It is and it’s where a lot of fans see these players for the first time. So it’s no surprise that teams enjoy celebrating those moments, right? There’s a–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –there’s a kind of nostalgia element to it. There’s a very communal feel to that and you and I can, can say, right? When 10 years from now and Francisco Alvarez has just gotten this fourth Gold Glove.

BOBBY:  Let’s talk about Silver Slugger, come on!

ALEX:  Silver Slugger. Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  It’s gotta get some hits. It’s been a while since the Mets had a catcher who could you know, put that on ball.

ALEX:  As far as, as far as stadium giveaways go, where do, where do bobbleheads rank in your, in your power ranking? Because I think I noted there, they’re probably pretty low on my list.

BOBBY:  They’re not very good. Bobbleheads never looked like the guy or gal. And they’re overused at the same time.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  It’s the most common thing that you can get. I, I guess I sort of like the recent trend to do bobbleheads that aren’t just the player in uniform.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like the Noah Syndergaard gnome or whatever they did for a couple years. Or the Noah Syndergaard Thor bobblehead. And I, I guess that’s pretty creative. That’s funny. So I guess that’s better than a normal bobblehead. But I still think that’s it’s behind like, you know, we got the Tom Seaver Statue.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It’s looking down on us as we, as we record this podcast, that was a Mets giveaway from our first Mets game this year at Citi Field. I, I think the statue, the mini statue is far superior to a bobblehead.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I think we’ve gone away from giving away many bats, like more real bats, for obvious reasons. You don’t want to give someone a weapon.

ALEX:  Yeah. I remember I was, I attended Yankee Stadium one time to go to a game and there were free giveaways of these mini bats. And they tried to get one, I did.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And the guy size me up and was like, you’re not under 12.

BOBBY:  Oh, it was under 12 only?

ALEX:  Right. It was all it was for kids. I don’t, I don’t know if that was that, if that was the, that was the cut off. But–

BOBBY:  He tried to convince him you were under 12?

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  You were like 24.

ALEX  I tried to convince him that it was maybe in the spirit of the game.

BOBBY:  Oh, right.

ALEX:  Right, for I, mean, is, Is this what cancele culture is, right? Sorry, I’m, I’m over 15, I, I can only be me, you know?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  He wasn’t buying it.

BOBBY:  How many people do you think tried to pull that same shit on him? Is the real question.

ALEX:  Probably at least a couple dozen. Lots of like–

BOBBY:  I don’t understand why only kids can get a bat.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It’s one thing like, I remember when I went to Citi Field one time when I was younger. It was like everyone under 15 gets a Citi Field, Build-A-Bear, a Mets Build-A-Bear. And I was like, 14.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But I looked older because I was tall when I was younger. And like, I was like, nope. And my parents were with me, and they were like, he is 14. And they were like, nope, no, he’s not. And I was like, are you serious right now? It feels like in a borderline case, you should just give it to the kid.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You know, you weren’t not a borderline case–

ALEX:  I was, I was not.

BOBBY:  I don’t think you’re pulling off 14 very well.

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  Knowing you, you probably had some facial hair. You were probably on your way to buy an IPA.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Which is a sort of a dead giveaway.

ALEX:  Yep.

BOBBY:  Even if you were trying to underage drink. I don’t think you’d be headed straight for the IPA.

ALEX:  Yeah, I don’t think so.

BOBBY:  You get like a Coors Light or something. But yeah, so, so that’s my story of how I was robbed from getting the City field Build-A-Bear.

ALEX:  Sham. I like, I like a good giveaway–

BOBBY:  Steve Cohen is listening. He can make this right.

ALEX:  He, he really can. I like a giveaway with, with a little bit of use value, you know? The Mets historically have done their, their free shirt Fridays, which I, which I love.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I love, I mean, that’s just my sleep shark collection.

BOBBY:  Or Gabriella Sleeve Shirt collection [19:16].

ALEX:  [19:16] yeah, exactly, exactly.

BOBBY:  Yeah, the free shirts are good. And, and they’re, I mean, you know this because you lived with me during the 2015 World Series run. One of those free shirt giveaways became my lucky shirt that I’d wear underneath whatever Jersey I was wearing–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –for that run. So, you know, it reinforces the reason that you give the shirt away.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It’s great, great advertising for 1-800-Flowers on the back of those shirts like that, that–

ALEX:  [19:42] we’ll never forget.

BOBBY:  –he must have dropped a bag for that. Because 1-800 Flowers stuck with me.

ALEX  Yeah, I see it on like a near nightly basis.

BOBBY:  Since the ad that keeps on giving. We should, we should look into buying that on the back of a free shirt Friday shirt. What do you think?

ALEX:  That’s–

BOBBY:  It just says Tipping Pitches, nationalize baseball. On the back–

ALEX:  [20:01] get through the review process?

BOBBY:  Uhm, I don’t know a lot of stuff gets through the review process.

ALEX:  It’s true.

BOBBY:  Like Terra coin, you know? Like, we’re not the, we’re not the least reliable thing that could ever be put out on jersey.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  We’re maybe not the most reliable though. I feel like if I called 1-800 Flowers now they would come through.

ALEX:  They would.

BOBBY:  I’m like Tipping Pitches, me always let people down by talking for 30 minutes at the beginning of the podcast when we said we were gonna get straight into it. Do you want to get straight into it now?

ALEX:  I do.

BOBBY:  Okay, unfortunately, our first topic is shitty. It’s a shitty thing that happened yesterday that we sat down and we were not sure if we wanted to talk about. But, but felt it was kind of important to address and that’s Josh Donaldson, making a distasteful racist joke? Comment? Towards Tim Anderson that he thinks was a joke but wasn’t actually a joke because Tim Anderson was not in on the joke. This happened, Saturday afternoon, Saturday evening, when the Yankees were playing the White Sox. There’s been a little bit of bad blood between the Yankees and Red Sox for the last couple of weeks. There was a play at third base where Donaldson applied to an aggressive tag on Tim Anderson as he was getting back to the base. And he blocked the bag and kind of put his knee into Anderson’s head as he was headfirst sliding back into the base. And so when the, the benches cleared yesterday, in the White Sox-Yankees game. A lot of people thought, oh, this is you know, leftover animosity from this hard tag at third base. Josh Johnson is a little bit of a shit stirrer. You know, we’ve known him to sort of start brawls and get under people’s skin in the past, but then it came out after the game. In the postgame press conferences from Anderson and his teammates. Yasmani Grandal and Liam Hendriks, and their manager Tony La Russa. That apparently Josh Donaldson heads, head called Tim Anderson, Jackie, Jackie Robinson, referencing a quote that T.A. had in 2019, where Tim Anderson call himself he fee- he said he feels like the current games, Jackie Robinson. That he’s carrying on the legacy of what Jackie Robinson started, and that baseball needs another reset. And he feels like himself along with a collection of other players who are trying to play like him are resetting Major League Baseball right now. That was the full context of the 2019 quote that Josh Donaldson felt he was referencing in jest to Tim Anderson. And T.A. obviously he was offended by this. Because, well, I don’t want to pretend to know why, or what exactly bothered Tim Anderson about this. But I will share something that I thought was immediately very insightful from our friend of the podcast, Randy Wilkins, when he said, If you’ve played a sport, particularly a majority white sport, and you’ve been jokingly called the name of someone who shares your race, you know that exact feeling when someone says it to you. It’s lazy, it’s, it’s lazy, it’s racist. And it just reinforces the stereotype that you have to play a game a certain way, and fit into a certain type of mold in order to be accepted into the baseball culture that we have. And I think what’s so frustrating about this incident and how Josh Donaldson handled it, and has handled it, after the fact. For me, is that Donaldson doesn’t really seem to understand any of that. And he seems like the perfect archetype of a player who exists in that like semi-toxic baseball culture that we all kind of nebulously know, to be like, a crass locker room culture where people joke around with each other, and they say things that are not politically correct and are not maybe as advanced about certain societal issues. And Donaldson feels like, almost like a poster boy for that type of baseball guy. And that type of ideology about what is accepted on the field and in the clubhouse. When it starts to expand itself into things like racism and the historic segregation of Major League Baseball, as it did with Donaldson making a specific joke about Jackie Robinson. It creates stereotypes and just reinforces who should and shouldn’t be playing Major League Baseball. I have no idea why Josh Donaldson thought to say this quote unquote, “joke”, at the time that he did. But to me this is representative of a certain type of baseball culture, where if you grew up in it, you feel like you can say anything you want to anyone else on the field. Because you feel like this game is for you. And you can other certain types of people inside of it. Does that make sense?

ALEX:  Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I Donaldson is the symptom not the cause, right? He is a symptom of this environment that largely encourages this type of behavior, right? And for a long time, Major League Baseball the, the institution has grappled with and frankly failed at creating an environment that is openly welcoming of black and brown players. There was obviously the incident a couple of years ago, when Tim Anderson was suspended for saying the N word on the field.

BOBBY:  This was, this was last year.

ALEX:  Was this last year?

BOBBY:  Yeah. And he served his suspension in the first three games of the season.

ALEX:  Right. Which at the time was a very clear indication that MLB is is just out of touch, culturally with, you know, the, the state of the game right now and who is actually playing it. And Tim Anderson has been at the forefront of this conversation of how to make a more inclusive sport and how to bring people that look like him. That come from his background, into a sport that’s so often so exclusionary, to, to folks like him. And I think it’s disingenuous to pretend that Josh Donaldson is not aware of this, right? Is not aware of Tim Anderson’s place in the game. And like you said, I, we, we have really no idea why he said this. He, Donaldson himself tried to give a little bit of context following the game, right? By saying by, by referencing the, the said 2019 Sports Illustrated interview, where he, where Anderson can compare themselves to Jackie Robinson. And Donaldson said that he’s joked about, he’s joked about it with him in the past, and it hasn’t been an issue. He said, I don’t know what’s changed if something that is changed from that. My meaning of that is not by any turn trying to be racist by any fact of the matter. Obviously, he deemed it was disrespectful. And look, if you did, I apologize. Which that’s–

BOBBY:  Sorry if your feelings were hurt.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Great apology. I, I don’t know, I think it when Tony La Russa is coming out and saying you made a racist comment, which is point blank what he said, he use–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  the word racist. Maybe it’s, maybe it’s time to look in the mirror a little bit.

BOBBY:  Yeah, and this, this is sort of what I was trying to get at earlier, when I was saying, this type of thinking about the game is was designed to just make people feel other within the context of baseball. And there are a million, there are a million toxic traits and stereotypes that exist in baseball in America and at, at the major league level, that exclude, inherently exclude other types of people. And I think the inability to recognize that your comment might reinforce one of those things, shows a really unfortunate lack of emotional intelligence. That I feel like, is not prioritized enough in our game at, at all levels. Baseball lacks emotional intelligence, in the clubhouse, on the fields, in the front office, at the coach level, in the broadcast booth. Like there are among a lot of fans, like there are so many spaces that a level of emotional and societal intelligence could make it more welcoming for everybody. At almost no cost to the person who needs to learn that emotional intelligence. Or very little cost to the person who needs to learn that emotional intelligence. Particularly if you were taught it from a young age that I just feel like baseball doesn’t really care about. And it’s a crisis to the future of the game, that we don’t prioritize learning why your comment might be racist. Like that, that’s, that’s bad. That’s a really big red flag that Josh Donaldson thinks he can say that to a very prominent black man who’s spoken about what it feels like to be black in Major League Baseball at length. That he feels like he can look him in the eye and say, call him Jackie Robinson. It’s just, it’s absurd. It’s like completely beyond the pale. There is no other interpretation of this, other than this comment was racist. I don’t know why Josh Donaldson said it but we don’t need to tie ourselves in knots trying to figure out why it wasn’t racist. Because it was and I don’t know man like these, these types of things that keep cropping up every once in a while in Major League Baseball. It’s a huge problem because we’ve talked about the pitfalls of this on the show so many times. But for better or for worse, Major League Baseball is the leader when it comes to what is culturally acceptable in the world of baseball. People all the way down to the little league level. take cues from major leaguers about what is okay. And what are they learning if their favorite player or if their favorite team is the Yankees and they were excited that Josh Donaldson came to their team? They’re not learning the right lessons. So I don’t know. We, we just, I hate reducing it to we have to do better, but it just has to get better. Like they’re just, it can’t keep going on like this.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think as we’ve said on this podcast before, Major League Baseball is kind of at a crossroads of where it would like to go culturally? What its position will be in the broader American psyche over the next 10, 20, 30 years? And I don’t know, it repeatedly shows itself as being pretty incapable of actually addressing these sorts of things in any competent manner. I, I shouldn’t be surprised, but it, it kind of catches me off guard every time. So–

BOBBY:  I mean, where it stands right now is that there are just more guys like Josh Donaldson than like Tim Anderson.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Or even like Yasmani Grandal or Liam Hendriks. Like his teammates who came to his defense, there’s a lot of Josh Donaldson’s in Major League Baseball.

ALEX:  Yeah, he is the archetype of kind of the red ass baseball player that has characterized the league for most of its existence.

BOBBY:  Right. And it’s like unafraid to be problematic. Like unafraid to be barstoolly for lack of a better–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –shorthand.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You know what I mean?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I don’t know what we’re maybe losing the thread a little bit. And I don’t want to overstate this, any more than it needs to be. I just felt like it was a microcosm of this. Like emotionally stunted baseball culture–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –that we live in–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –right now. All right, let’s move on. Let’s move on to the lighthearted topic of the Los Angeles Angels being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Alex. You have the deets on this one.

ALEX:  Yes, well, I should, I should clarify that it is, it is not the Angels themselves who are being investigated, but it is the, the Mayor of Anaheim, Harry Sidhu. Who is being investigated for a, a litany of things. Among them, I, I’ll read some words you can tell me a few, if any of them ring any bells you. Bribery–

BOBBY:  Never heard of it.

ALEX:  Wire, wire fraud.

BOBBY:  I plead the fifth.

ALEX:  False statements, obstruction of justice.

BOBBY:  That was parody. Nope, false statements were just parody. Obstruction of justice, look, they just need to law enforcement needs to just try harder.

ALEX:  We all obstruct justice sometimes, right? And, and witness tampering.

BOBBY:  That one I did. I love to tamper with a witness.

ALEX:  The, the Los Angeles Angels have been in protracted negotiations with the, the City of Anaheim, which is where the Los Angeles Angels play. For more than a decade at this point to try and essentially renegotiate the lease over the, the stadium and the property on which it sits. As of late that has turned into efforts to sell the land to a development team led by Arte Moreno. Who would then in turn, develop the, the site surrounding the stadium, right? In, in, in a move that is all too common in Major League Baseball, right? Turn it into a sort of mini city of sorts with, with shops and restaurants and affordable housing, I mean, stop me if you’ve heard this before, right? But this is a story that really, really stands out. I think because of the, it would be an understatement to call it incompetence on the part of the city, right? I mean, it’s, it’s literal corruption like, like good old fashioned corruption.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  That we’re talking about here.

BOBBY:  Right, like putting an envelope of cash and shoots back pockets corruption.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like the–

BOBBY:  Allegedly.

ALEX:  Self allegedly well. The, the FBI has literally had taps on the Mayor’s phone for like years at this point, right? And now anyone who has ever talked with him is kind of wondering like what they have said.

BOBBY:  Do you think Arte Moreno has spoken to the Mayor? I’d like to know what Arte Moreno had to say to the Mayor over these past few years.

ALEX:  Well, if if the wiretaps are any indication, Arte Moreno or someone close to him, indicated that they may just give the Mayor a million dollars if he fast track to this thing. That–

BOBBY:  Sorry. That’s so funny.

ALEX:  It’s, it is pretty funny.

BOBBY:  That’s really good though.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like, okay, I’m gonna say something controversial.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  Bribes are cool.

ALEX:  Right, uh-huh.

BOBBY:  We’re talking cool and uncool last week? Of all the crimes, you know, bribery is good, especially when it’s coming from one of the 30 Major League Baseball owners. Like it’s very healthy. Like definitely no damaging effects to society happening here.

ALEX:  No. Well, I just, in, in a world that these days is so often–

BOBBY:  Confusing.

ALEX:  –confusing and, and–

BOBBY:  Right!

ALEX:  –really characterized by really just like next level scandals, right? And it confusing disregard for taxpayers. This feels like really, the Mayor has taken it back to the old days.

BOBBY:  Yes, he’s making scandals great again. So you could say.

ALEX:  Boooo! But just–

BOBBY:  Just like doing it for the people, though, you know.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Bribery is something that everyone can understand.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  You don’t need to know. Like, anything about how non fungible tokens were stolen. You don’t need to know anything about like foreign markets.

ALEX  Right. I think a couple a couple a year ago on this podcast or something, we had a prolonged discussion on, on the definition of embezzlement.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly.

ALEX:  Right, like–

BOBBY:  Racketeering.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That can be so many things.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  You don’t need to know anything about offshore accounts. Like this is just straight up, here’s some cash.

ALEX:  Like guys being dudes.

BOBBY:   Spread on your doorstep.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Here’s what I want to happen handwritten note.

ALEX:  Mayor’s to do has essentially staked his candidacy for Mayor, he’s up for, for reelection. And he’s, he’s really staked the, the bulk of his Mayorship on keeping the Angels in Anaheim, right? That’s kind of what this whole–

BOBBY:  I’m going to run against him, and my whole Mayorship is going to be staked on moving the Angels out of Anaheim. For the love of God, can we get them somewhere else? It’s so hard to get there. There’s nothing else there, except fucking Disney with land.

ALEX  Well, not yet. But if Arte Moreno has his way.

BOBBY:  So, so he’s gonna get a new stadium then? That’s what this is all over?

ALEX:  Well, not necessarily. So, let’s–

BOBBY:  Oh, right. No, no, we’re keeping Angel Stadium. It’s not just going to be a freeway underpass around it.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Currently, it’s just a freeway underpass, and–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –and, in and out, it’s like within five minutes.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Which is good. That’s one thing–

ALEX:  And then like, and then like, acres and acres of–

BOBBY:  Parking lot.

ALEX:  –parking lot, yes.

BOBBY:  So much parking lot.

ALEX:  It’s so much parking lot.

BOBBY:  Like you can’t even access most of the parking lot.

ALEX  Yeah. So the deal largely revolves around this. This land that is made up of parking lots right now, right? And–

BOBBY:  You don’t pave paradise and put up a parking lot. You pave parking lots and put up [37:22].

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah. That’s right!

BOBBY:  Yeah, you actually liked that one. There you go, most of the time, you boo my puns and jokes.

ALEX  A lot of this, this scandal has really been unfolding in the public eye over the last few years. Insofar as the fact that the deal has been negotiated completely outside of the public eye over the last few years, right? So, so news came out in late 2019, that the city had basically, the city council had decided to sell the land, to a company comprised of Arte Moreno and no one knows who else.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I believe at the time Arte Moreno said, well, that’s because that’s because it’s just me. And I will be getting partners, depending on what we decide to do with the land.

BOBBY:  Nothing to see here.

ALEX:  Nothing to see here. You’re just writing a blank check to–

BOBBY:  So, I think it’s worth actually saying because I don’t, I don’t, I mean, I know we’ve talked a little bit about the Mayor’s role and all of this. But I think it’s, it’s worth saying that some warning flags started to go up when this, the sale of the land happened really quickly.

ALEX:  Yes, yeah.

BOBBY:  Like way faster than something that is usually this bureaucratic, over this much land. In a part of the world where real estate is as expensive as Southern California. There’s usually multiple people bidding for this land. It’s usually a protracted negotiation, where at each step of the process, the person selling land, in this case, the the city, right? The city was selling the land. Especially when it’s a public institution like the City of Anaheim. There’s usually, it doesn’t catch people off guard when this land gets sold. And then–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –all of a sudden, this was sold to Arte Moreno and his incorporated business partners.

ALEX:  Right. As we [37:09]

BOBBY:  As we don’t know anything about.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And so then people were like, wait, how did the sale happen? Why did it happen so fast? Why it’d be not hear anything about the process of the sale, and the development of this land? On this podcast, we’ve spent so much time talking about how long it took the A’s to get anything approved to even look at the land at Howard Terminal, you know.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So, so I think people were surprised when it was just like, okay, Arte Morena owns the land now.

ALEX:  Right. Right, exactly. Well, them the sale–

BOBBY:  Hands have been shooked.

ALEX:  Right. The sale was, was agreed to, all of the negotiations took place behind closed doors. When at the time there was, there was news that came out that in September, they had agreed to sell the land, despite the fact that they had actually not started negotiating with Arte Moreno’s team until November, just a couple of months.

BOBBY:  Couple of months later? Oops, someone wrote the wrong month.

ALEX:  It, yeah, and that–

BOBBY:  I get those mixed up sometimes too though. Like, sometimes we’re like 10 Is that September? It’s not Octo- oh shit! Shit! Now they’re gonna know I bribe the Mayor.

ALEX:  So the, the city effectively agreed to sell the 150 acres that make up the stadium site to Arte Moreno, his company for $320 million. They required him to build affordable housing, and effectively afforded him a rebate for $170 million. Which basically meant that the city would be receiving $150 million as in cash for the deal. Now, actually, late last year/early this year, the state of California saw this.

BOBBY:  Oh, this very good [40:55]–

ALEX:  This is where it gets good.

BOBBY:  I love when the state is like, hold on, there’s some local shenanigans going on.

ALEX:  Right. So they deemed that this deal was in violation of the state’s affordable housing law. And, and handed down a $96 million fine, which they said that the Angels would have to pay to the city, the city could then use that money to build affordable housing, basically, wherever they want. And that’s, that money that gets paid out relatively quickly, in, in a matter of a few years. So it’s a decent deal for, for the city. That however, not only lowered the price of the overall deal. Because that gets basically credited to the money that the city is receiving. But it also lowered the amount of affordable housing units that Arte Moreno would, would now have to build, right? So it bumped it from, you know, more than 400 units down to between 80 and 100 units. They reached settlement in May of this year.

ALEX:  At the same time, there are concerned citizens who file a lawsuit saying all of this was done behind closed doors. We got absolutely zero input or knowledge about this ahead of time.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  This is mired in controversy. You could say.

BOBBY:  I just have to say, America is the greatest country on Earth.

ALEX:  It’s so, so good.

BOBBY:  Although, okay, wait. This is as ridiculous and convoluted as this sounds. This is so par for the course for Southern California.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like you have California, we think of it as an extremely liberal state with a lot of laws that govern what you can and can’t do in the public sphere. And that, that means a lot of things like education, there’s a lot of rules about, you know, accreditation and, and becoming a teacher. And then in real estate, there’s a lot of rules about when you’re developing new projects, how much of that needs to be set aside to build affordable housing units as you’re discussing? Because California, as a state has such a gigantic homelessness problem in many of its largest cities, in Southern California, especially. And when you get down into the real estate world of Southern California, what you find is a, a ton of like insanely conservative, right wing. Concentrated real estate money that spends like more than two thirds of their time, just trying to get out of, just trying to find legal loopholes to statewide laws so that they can enact their real estate dominance on a local level. Because it’s incredibly lucrative, because there’s so much money to be made in real estate down there, that you find yourselves in situations like this. Like this is just, this is Arte doing Arte stuff. You know, like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –this.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  This is just, this is not that weird, which is insane! This brings me back to my point from last week, why can’t baseball just be baseball? Why does baseball have to be real estate development? Big business, real estate development? It’s so convoluted. And it just, I don’t know how you are supposed to. Like, I don’t know how you’re supposed to take any of this information and be like, yeah, I like Mike Trout. It’s so weird.

ALEX:  Yeah, I don’t know. Many fans who really care all that much about the ins and outs of a, of like the real estate deal that the Angels or the Braves or the Royals, or the A’s, or the Marli- I mean, the- goes on and on, right? Which is i which is why we spent so much time talking about it–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –here on this podcast.

BOBBY:  No one cares about it. Here’s 30 minutes on it.

ALEX:  Yeah. Yeah. But it’s, it’s certainly indicative of like where the sport is right now. In that, it has its tentacles wrapped up in so many different projects. That it’s virtually impossible to avoid controversy in some of them. What’s mostly impressive is that it manages to engage in controversy in almost all of them.

BOBBY:  Yep. But this is why you buy a baseball team though.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  This is why. You don’t I mean, it’s nice that baseball is profitable on–

ALEX:  Allegedly.

BOBBY:  –on its base.

ALEX:  Allegedly.

BOBBY:  Okay. It’s nice that we think baseball is profitable from this, the insane local TV deals that it has. But all this stuff where you don’t know the exact numbers. And you don’t know who gets what. And you don’t know who develops what, and you don’t know what person gets an envelope at which stage of the process. And you don’t know why there’s suddenly a $96 million rebate off Arte Moreno’s real estate deal price coming from the state or the city. I, I don’t really know.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Yep.

BOBBY:  I don’t even remember you just explained it to me, I don’t remember. All that stuff? That’s where you went on the margins. That’s where you get a truthful. $2 million here, a little $10 million there. And all of a sudden you made like 90 million bucks in like a year, you know? And that’s why, that’s why you invest in Major League Baseball.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It’s cool. It’s about do with my money, for sure. Tipping Pitches by a team fund is growing larger and larger by the day.

ALEX:  Yeah, I we regret to inform you–

BOBBY:  I Promise I will not bribe any Mayors. Mark my words. I will not bribe a Mayor.

ALEX  I admire your, the resolute stance you’ve taken. I don’t know that I can say the same.

BOBBY:  Okay. Well, then you’ll be the fall guy.

ALEX:  Yes, exactly.

BOBBY:  You’re the fixer of the Tipping Pitches by a team fund LLC.

ALEX  Yeah, we regret to inform listeners that actually our Patreon money is going to redevelop land.

BOBBY:  Right. We should just call, we should make it patreon.com\racketeering. You know, if Alex shows up on your doorstep, you got some shit to answer for. Okay, anything else on this? Or should we take a quick break and do some listener questions?

ALEX:  Yeah. Let’s do it.

[47:10]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, our first question is from a voicemail, we have four voicemails to play today. So exciting. Please call into our voicemail line. It’s fun to play them on the podcast. And it makes it, makes us feel like we’re doing a local radio show, which is how we, the headspace that we’re always trying to get into. Which is why we just spent 35 minutes talking about the convoluted nature of real estate deals. That always rates well in the major markets.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hey, this is Jay. I’m from Oregon, specifically went to Oregon State so a lot of fun stuff in baseball with those guys coming up. But my question is more about, like bullpen people. I keep hearing lots of stuff about like the kind of being insulting or something. Maybe a slight when a starting pitcher gets asked to be a bullpen guy. So there’s some kind of like stigma there. I don’t really know. Maybe some type of special teams type thing with kickers in football. But regardless, I love the pop ups you do and excited for my boy Steven Kwan, RIP and shit up. Have a good day! Bye!

BOBBY:  Jay, thank you for calling. Congrats on Steven Kwan. RIP and shit up! As you put it. I don’t know, I feel like there’s less of a stigma about being in the bullpen than there used to be. The reason that there is a quote unquote, “stigma” or why you assume you’re not as good of a pitcher if you’re in the bullpen is because starters throw more innings. And so if you’re better, you would typically be a starter because then you could provide more innings of good pitching for your team. That’s less true than ever, it’s still true. And if you are the best pitcher on your team, you should be a starter. Because you can provide six or seven innings multiple times a week and your team is going to be better off for it. Now there are guys that are [49:08] max effort guys who can’t last as long. So they’re a one inning reliever and they might be just as good of a pitcher, if you talk about stuff. But the best pitchers ever the most valuable pitchers ever, those are starters. So that is why there is sort of that distinction that you’re picking up on. Even as we are in this, this world in which believers in the aggregate throw more innings than starters. If you’re looking one guy to another guy, a reliever is gonna throw max about 80 to 100 innings if they’re like, “the guy” that you go to for one two innings every time they come in. And most starters are still throwing, the top end starters are still throwing like 170 innings. So relievers can never really match that.

ALEX:  Yeah, like you said, I think there’s maybe less stigma today than there was. I mean, for, for a while now, moving to the bullpen has been instrumental in reviving a lot of guys careers, right? Because you may not be able to make your stuff work through five or six innings, especially if you have a more limited pitch mix.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  But if you’re only going out there throwing 15, 20 pitches–

BOBBY:  Let’s say you’re, I don’t know, Mariano Rivera.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Can only throw one–

ALEX:  [50:22]

BOBBY:  –[50:22] even that good [50:26]. Doesn’t strike anyone out–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –you know, just kidding. But that’s a perfect example, Mariano Rivera started his career as a starter and it just didn’t work. And then he became the greatest closure of all time.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And there’s nothing to be ashamed of about that. But listen, if I have, if I have the first overall draft pick, and there’s Mariano Rivera, and there’s Pedro Martinez, guess what? Sorry, Mo, I’m taking Pedro.

ALEX:  Right. Well, and I think it’s, it’s a tough transition for a lot of guys. Because starters are creatures of habit, right? And if you have spent 5, 7, 10 years perfecting this craft. It can be a little jarring to suddenly be called upon to come out and just pitch the seventh, right? You don’t necessarily know have that guarantee that you’re going to pitch every fifth day. You don’t know when that call is going to come. And I got the it can be, I don’t know, demoralizing at times if you have trained your entire career to do one job. And maybe you can’t cut it there. And you’re, and you’re told to–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –go try your stuff out in the pen. But, but it’s becoming more and more common these days as relievers are becoming more valuable. Especially as teams realize they can take guys who haven’t succeeded as starters. And let them go multiple innings out of, out of the pen, right? That is, that is kind of like it’s like almost an overstated cliche. At this point, right? Of finding, finding the next–

BOBBY:  Andrew Miller.

ALEX:  –Andrew Miller.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Exactly. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Newsflash, there’s not going to be another Andrew Miller.

ALEX:  Nope.

BOBBY:  I mean, there might be good long relief guys. But with what he was able to do and, and pioneer or re pioneer, I guess we had firemen–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –back in the day, but that kind of fell out of favor for the one and then guy. And then when he came back on the scene with Cleveland and Terry Francona, the way that he used him in those playoff runs, I think it’s there’s not going to be another version of that. Or you shouldn’t hold your breath waiting for the next Andrew Miller is what I’ll say. I think I’m glad you identified like the, the mental challenge of going from starter to reliever. Because I don’t know how so many guys do it. And particularly how you do it within one season. Like if you were developed as a starter, and then they maybe put you in the bullpen once you got to double A or triple A. Because they were worried about how your stuff would play. And you got a couple extra miles an hour and now all of a sudden your valuable went on to an end guy. Then, then I can see how you would be able to make that transition over the arc of your career. But for a guy like let’s say David Peterson right now, with the Mets where he’s coming in. He’s maybe piggybacking a guy who, a guy like Trevor Williams, where he’s thrown three innings out of the bullpen. Or every once in a while the Mets are asking him to stretch out and throw five or six innings because they have multiple pitchers on the injured list right now. I think that’s insanely hard. And I, I almost like admire guys like that. More than I ju- than, than mentally speaking. Than then a guy who knows that he’s going to start every fifth day. It just seems much easier to me.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  At all other four days, you have no stress in your life, man. No, you have to throw a bullpen and, and it’s insanely stressful on the days that you do pitch and it takes a ton out of you. But at least you know when that’s going to come. And you know when you’re going to be asked to throw 85 pitches. Not you might wake up one morning and in Syracuse, and they want you to throw 85 pitches that night in Queens that’s so hard. But I almost think back to we were doing an episode of RTC 2 and with Jazz Chisholm. And he was traded in the minors straight up for Zac Gallen from the Diamondbacks to the Marlins. And we asked him about that, and he was like, yeah, you know, like, I, I think about it, and I, I see how Zac Gallen is doing. And I want to, you know, prove a little bit of something and I was, you know, upset that Arizona was ready to give up on me that early before I ever made my major league debut. But at the same time, I had to think of it like Miami wanted me. Like one team wanted me enough to give up a guy who is as good as Zac Gallen to get me. And if you’re a reliever you almost have to have that kind of mindset where like, yeah, they didn’t want me to be a starter, but they do want me to pitch an important seventh inning. So I have to almost be like, forget the first half of that. And just be like, I’m gonna come into the game and high leverage situations where if I blow up, then I ruin what the starter just did. So that’s a really important role to be in.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And we know how frustrating bullpens are for fans. And so if you’re a reliever or you have been made a reliever. I almost feel like even though that organization is saying you might not be as good or as valuable of a pitcher as the starting rotation right now, they’re still putting a ton of trust in you. So, you know, it cuts both ways, I feel like.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, I think it’s another data point in favor of the argument that relievers are routinely underrated by traditional metrics. They are underrated by the, by the market, oftentimes. They’re underrated–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –in, in arbitration, right? Because–

BOBBY:  So volatile.

ALEX:  –they’re so volatile. And it’s hard to quantify a lot of these things, right? But you look at a guy like Colin McHugh, right? Who was instrumental for the Braves last year, both starting and relieving.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t know, this is a great question.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Give, give us a lot to think about it.

BOBBY:  It did!

ALEX:  The longer on it than we probably intended to.

BOBBY:  No. I know. And I mean, it’s because we don’t ever actually talk about real baseball.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So when someone asked me [55:51]

ALEX:  [55:52]

BOBBY:  Wait, it’s fun. It’s fun to talk about baseball. Okay, next question from Abby. It comes from the podcast mailbag Slack channel, Abby says, “Where in a ballpark is your ideal place to sit, when you go to a baseball game?” I don’t know if we’ve ever answered this before, we’ve it’s probably come up in conversation. I don’t, I don’t have a super specific answer for this. I’m not that particular about where I sit. If I’m gonna be up in the higher levels, in the cheaper seats, I’d like to be somewhat behind home plate, so that you can get a full view of all nine positions. Whereas like, if you’re in the upper decks in the outfield, your view might be obstructed of like the right or left field line. That’s my only real peculiarity when it comes to seats. I know that you’re a big bleachers guy, you love to sit in the bleachers.

ALEX  I do really like sitting bleachers, even though sometimes the, the view of the actual gameplay is not always the most ideal. But say, for example, that the bleachers at the Oakland Coliseum are, I mean, just maybe my favorite place to watch a ballgame period.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like you I think I’ve, since that Patreon money hasn’t hit yet. We’re often relegated to, to a cheap seats. I’m you’ll, you’ll rarely really find me sitting along the on the first or third base line. But it’s nice kind of sitting up there in the three hundreds, the four hundreds and to get that whole view of the whole park. I think oftentimes it’s the best way to tell what’s how a play is actually playing out.

BOBBY:  Yeah, the building suspense of seeing a, you know, a line drive fall for a hit. And you can see–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –as the guy is rounding third, if he’s really going to try to take home or not. Like you have a great view of that–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –up in the higher seats. And I don’t think that’s a problem necessarily. It’s just a different experience to watch it. When you’re on the field level. You know, we’ve gone to maybe like one or two games wherever you’ve been sitting on field level together. And it’s always so, so shocking how big and fast the players are.

ALEX:  Yeah,

BOBBY:  Like we were at Yankee Stadium a few weeks ago, and we were, we were not sitting in the box seats on the right field line. But we had gone down there to say hello to someone. And we were there for maybe like half an inning while the Yankees were in the field and single got hit on the right field line and Aaron Judge came running over he was about 30 feet from us and I was like, holy shit. Holy shit! And the way the ball just like flies out of his hand after he feels it like that, that’s just this is not just another prime example of how you could not do anything on a major league. Nothing that they do is anything that you could do. I will say for the bleachers, if you’re gonna, if you’re only going to see one game in a ballpark. Like you only, you’re in a city, and the tickets are comparably priced. The bleachers is probably going to give you like the most honest representation of what the fan base is like. Like what it feels like to be sitting around like true hardcore fans, if you’re out there in the bleachers. Like there’s usually a lot of diehards out there.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I think of like the the Dodgers bleachers. Man, it’s a wild ride out there. I mean, people are gonna I, I got a lot of shit for wearing like, Mets stuff in the Dodgers bleachers when they, when they came into town. But I felt like I understood the Dodgers fan base really well.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  When I left that night. I’ll say that.

ALEX  Yeah. Seeing a, a game in the Yankee Stadium bleachers is just, it’s a different world, man. I’ve similarly war. war is here when the A’s came to town and nothing it’s, it’s a mistake.

BOBBY:  It just prepare yourself.

ALEX:  But yeah.

BOBBY:  Still yourself.

ALEX:  Really do have to, have to build up a bit of a wall.

BOBBY:  Okay, next question.

VOICEMAIL 2:  Hey, guys, first time longtime, except not my first time. It’s Mike Schubert, your favorite Yankee fan. Here calling in to my favorite Yankees podcast to ask, what the NBA Playoffs going on, there’s lots of talk about Scott Foster being the referee that the NBA will send into games when they want to extend the series for the financial benefits of the NBA, the owners, etc. Is there an MLB umpire equivalent to that? Obviously, we have bad umpires like Joe West, Angel Hernandez, etcetera. But is there an MLB umpire that everyone would then say, ahh the fixes in. Anyway, thanks, love the pod, fuck the owners, etcera, etcetera.

BOBBY:  Do you have an answer for this? I don’t, it’s hard because baseball is a game that can not be as influenced by the umpires as basketball can. There are way more borderline judgment calls that happen for an official in a basketball game, than there are four an umpire in a baseball game. And I know that sounds silly because every pitch is technically there’s a chance to be called by the home plate umpire. However, it would be very, I think it’d be pretty hard to influence the outcome of a game as a home plate umpire without one seeming incredibly obvious, or two or two even really getting that many opportunities to make high leverage calls like that. Because most of the time guys swing it strikes, and guys take pitches that are obvious balls. And so you don’t get that many borderline calls really swing a game. Like you would if you you know, you give, let’s say 30 free throws to Dwayne Wade in an NBA finals game. Like that’s gonna win them the game most likely. And in baseball, you don’t really get that many opportunities, especially now since every close player is just challenged. And it’s overturned.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  If it’s egregiously wrong.

ALEX:  I feel like team favoritism is not something that has been studied properly when it comes to Major League umpires. And there probably is some data out there.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  On that I think more often you see umpires favoring either hitters of both teams or pitchers of both teams, right? This is a guy with a, with a big zone and both pitchers are going to benefit. And there are potentially situations where that can give a team a leg up right if you’re if you’re throwing out a, if you’re throwing out a guy who has subpar command, you’re essentially going to artificially increase his stuff, right? And give him a little bit more wiggle room on the edges. I mean, according to say, ED analytics, just looks this sort of thing, right? Ron Kulpa, big Ron Kulpa guy?

BOBBY:  No, no.

ALEX:  And, and Mike Estabrook, these are not real names. I have–

BOBBY:  No Ron Kulpa was real. No, no word yet from my brain about whether Ron Estabrook is okay.

ALEX:  They have the lowest ERAs as umpires or pitchers have the lowest ERAs when they are umping the baseball game.

BOBBY:  I love that, big zone.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Let’s go!

ALEX:  We love a big zone.

BOBBY:  I–

ALEX:  Jury, jury’s still out on, on whether A. Rod. enjoys that. Depends on if the zone is, is high, or if it’s wide. Because we know he wants a wide zone.

BOBBY:  I just think more often, you don’t see a problem with an umpire being particularly tough on one team. I think what happens is you have an umpire who was inconsistent. And it just unfortunately happens to play out in a, in a, at a time when it affects one team more than the other. I don’t watch a lot of baseball games and think, man, my team is getting jogged right now. Like that doesn’t happen the way that it did in the 2000s with Tim Donaghy–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in the NBA, where it was like, all right, guys or like Scott Foster, where what Mike is alluding to is like, he’s gotten a nickname as the extender. Where if it’s a game five, and we need one of these teams to win, so that we can get a game six and potentially a game seven, Scott Foster’s coming in, he’s making sure that team is gonna win. And I don’t even think that’s necessarily true, but like it’s at least more plausible in the NBA where it’s like in MLB, I don’t know like these pitches are coming in so fast. And they’re happening so often throughout the course of the game that honestly like it would be hard to fix a game as a home plate umpire just calling balls and strikes.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, I think because in part it would be so obvious, right?

BOBBY:  They fucking thing on the screen–

ALEX:  Like, yeah.

BOBBY:  –come on!

ALEX:  Right as, as much–

BOBBY:  These guys he named Joe West and Angel Hernandez they just suck at their job, necessarily like trying to hurt the Mets or Yankees or whoever.

ALEX:  Right. I, I think every fan at one point or another has maybe thought to themselves like oh, the ump is–

BOBBY:  [1:04:56] universal thing.

ALEX:  The ump is screwing us, right? But like oftentimes that the fans of the opposing team are thinking the exact same, right? I mean, there’s, there’s maybe a scenario where there is a guy who is, there is a guy who likes to put on an ump show. And, and–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –that can potentially if, if he say, tosses your starting pitcher. That can potentially impact the outcome of a game, right? But I also don’t know that there may be–

BOBBY:  Like when Noah Syndergaard got tossed on the first pitch of the game in 2016.

ALEX:  Yes. Exactly.

BOBBY:  Yeah. And Tom Hallion had to stop Terry Collins from ripping a man’s throat out on national television.

ALEX:  Yes, yeah.

BOBBY:  Oh, simpler times. Okay, next question. This comes from Dan in our Slack, Dan says, “What’s an obscure silly or random baseball event that you were in attendance for?” I’ll go first. I think I’ve talked about this on the podcast. I was at R. A. Dickey’s one hitter, and I jinxed it. I was like, haha, wouldn’t it be so funny if Cole Hamels broke up R. A. Dickey’s no hitter in the bottom of the third inning, and then he did. And then R. A. Dickey proceeded to give up, no hits for the rest of that game.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So that was that R. A. Dickey’s no hitter and I jinxed it. That’s obscure. I was also at Max Scherzer’s no hitter against the Mets in 2015 the end of the season.

ALEX:  Less obscure.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s thrown a couple of those. And that was the most dominant pitching performance I think I’ve ever seen. And maybe had this ever happened on the Major League Baseball field.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He, it was only not a perfect game because of an error by the third baseman, and he had 18 strikeouts. So, you know, it’s cool he’s on our team now. Unfortunately, his oblique didn’t get the memo. But it’s okay.

ALEX:  Ouch.

BOBBY:  It’s all right. We all heard our obliques from time to time. At the worst time for a team really need starting pitching depth right now.

ALEX:  Are you talking from personal experience here?

BOBBY:  No, of course not. How about you? Obscure, silly or random baseball event?

ALEX:  Obscure? I mean–

BOBBY:  I know you read a perfect game weren’t you?

ALEX:  I wasn’t Matt Ca- Matt Cain’s perfect game.

BOBBY:  Feels pretty obscure. So maybe like 25 of those in MLB history.

ALEX:  Well, I guess it depends on your definition of obscure, right? Because I, I think of that as being, I mean, it’s certainly one of the best baseball games I’ve ever been to, right? But it’s also something that has been memorialized in MLB history, right? Many people have heard that he, he did that thing. I was at Gary Sanchez’s full season debut. He had, I think he’d had a couple pinch hit at bats the, the season prior. But–

BOBBY:  Were we there together?

ALEX:  Were we there toge- yeah, I think we were there together, he went over.

BOBBY:  Just like we were at–

ALEX:  A strikeout.

BOBBY:  –with Tim Tebow.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Trenton Thunder–

ALEX:  This is, this is–

BOBBY:  [1:07:53]

ALEX:  This is the season in which he then goes on to be Babe Ruth for half a season, right?

BOBBY:  Right. Yes.

ALEX:  We didn’t get to witness any of that excellence.

BOBBY:  Nope. I felt like he flew out to the warning track and one of those bats.

ALEX:  Right. He, he made it close.

BOBBY:  He, he doesn’t need to impress us. We know Gary’s good. Yes. What about like a really long extra innings game? Remember the game that went like 20 innings?

ALEX:  Not 20, I think it was, I was I’ve been at one that went like 17 or 18.

BOBBY:  Wow, that’s pretty good.

ALEX:  It is.

BOBBY:  I don’t think I’ve ever been at a game that went past like 11 or 12.

ALEX:  Really?

BOBBY:  Yeah. There, those are obscure.

ALEX:  Those are, yeah.

BOBBY:  18 inning games are very obscure. And now they’ll never happen again.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Because of the, the runner on second roll.

ALEX:  Yeah. Which is so it’s kind of a, kind of a nice feather in my cap.

BOBBY:  Yeah, true. Yeah, you can, you can sit your grandkids on your knee and bouncing up and down and say back in my day.

ALEX:  I saw, I saw Bobby Crosby go over seven.

BOBBY:  Wow, they’ll be like, grandpa, let me play my Switch. Okay, next question. Time for two more questions. Bill on the Slack asks, “Let’s say Dick Durbin actually gets Congress to revoke the MLB Antitrust Exemption, what would the ideal potential competitor leak look like?” And then he lays out some, some other examples of competitor leagues in, in sports that don’t have antitrust exemptions. Like the USFL competing with the NFL, the XFL in the 2000s. The ABA in the 1960s, which eventually merged with the NBA. Do you have thoughts on what an ideal competitor league would look like? I mean, I sort of feel like this podcast is a testament to what an ideal competitor league would look like. Everything we talked about, that’s wrong with MLB. Just strip away all of that stuff. And then you have our ideal competitor league. But more specifically, do you have thoughts about like, what could be weird and, and more intriguing about a competitor league than Major League Baseball. Because it’s safe to say that you’re never going to get a league that has a better, better baseball players in it. It’s pretty entrenched that Major League Baseball has the best players in the world. And I don’t, I don’t really foresee that changing any time soon or ever.

ALEX:  I mean, I think it’s possible that we see a league that is inclusive of women.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I just earlier this year, Kelsie Whitmore signed, signed a contract with the Staten Island Ferry Hawks of the Atlantic League. Which I believe marked the, the first time that a woman would appear in a league affiliated with Major League Baseball.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But certainly we’re a, a long way off from that becoming a reality at the major league level. I think a league that is not so entrenched in its tradition, and culture would maybe be more open to that sort of thing. As evidenced by the fact that this has happened in independent league Baseball. It is now happening in the, in the Atlantic League, I think there’s a possibility that that opens up more opportunities.

BOBBY:  I think you’re right. And I think that because of what Major League Baseball is, I think it would necessitate that a competitor league is like that. That, that a competitor league is trying to speak to everyone because MLB is trying to speak to so few people. If you just came out, and you said, we’re just MLB. But a different acronym, I’m not sure what the draw would be. Because MLB already has all the best players, they already have the entrenched marketing, they already have the decades and decades of fandom. And so a competitor league would be a place where you could say, hey, everything that we don’t like about MLB, we just don’t have to do that anymore. And we don’t have to work against 150 years of precedent. For all of these things, we can just blow through all of the, the bullshit. I don’t necessarily know that a competitor league would turn out that way. You could mean in these other examples, a lot of what the quote unquote, “competition” was, was, oh, we’re going to try to play with different rules, funky rules, funky, you know, field dimensions and make it a more visual product for television. And all of these make it more wacky, and or we’re going to financially challenged the model of the league versus, you know, culturally challenging the model of the league. And so, I think there are a million ways that it could go, I do hope, and I saw some people talking about this in the slack. I do hope that it goes somewhat towards the way of like the Players League, which we talked about with him about [1:12:28]. Where it’s like a more player driven. And they actually have an ownership stake and investing in the league and making it make more sense for the game rather than for the people who just happen to own the game at any one given time.

ALEX:  Which doesn’t seem like it’s out of the question for me, given that a league–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –like a league like this would almost certainly not nearly be as profitable as something like Major League Baseball. Which somewhat lowers the stakes a little bit, right? There’s less of an incentive for something like tanking, right? There’s less of an incentive to take a guy to arbitration. Because you’re not hundreds of 1000s of dollars apart. You’re 1000s of dollars apart or hundreds of dollars apart, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  So I think, certainly a lot of the things that we lament about the sport, right? That, that seems somewhat antithetical to its communal spirit. I would hope that that would be reflected in a competitor really.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Final question here comes from our man, Chip. He says, I hope I haven’t missed this in a previous mailbag, or episode. But I would love a full technical breakdown of how you record software, hardware, struggles you’ve had or conquered with editing, and platforms. I don’t want to bore everyone with all of the details of Chip’s question, I’ll give a quick breakdown of how we record, if you’re interested in this sort of thing. We use a Scarlett 2i2, Focusrite Scarlett 2i2 to record it to pro tools. We use two Shure SM58s. And then I do a lot of editing and a lot of mixing on the back end of this podcast. That is why you don’t hear the 22nd pauses that we sometimes take to think our answers through and think our conversation through. It took a, a many years of practice for me to get this good at editing podcasts. And it is also my nine to five job, Monday through Friday, where I produce and edit podcasts for The Ringer. I’m happy to talk more about this but this feels like a perfect example of something to talk about Alex in our Patreon live Q&As, which you can get access to if you are signed up for the top tier of our Patreon the Alex Rodriguez VIP Club. Which is $12 a month and you get access to those live Q&As that happen every two months. So you can ask us anything in this Q&As. Anything that you’re curious about in the world of Tipping Pitches or in the world of Bobby and Alex, that is not related to baseball. And, or if you’re looking to start a podcast or something like that, you want to hear all of the mistakes that we’ve made along the way, or how it used to do the podcast when we first started out. Because it’s changed a lot through the different iterations where we started in a radio studio, and then we moved along to a voiceover booth in in NYU, and then we moved along to an a, to a professor’s auxilary office. And then we did it remotely. And then we changed microphones, and then we now we’re back in the same room again. So it’s, it’s changed a lot. And I think it’s a, a pretty good example of what like a DIY Podcast is for someone who doesn’t work for a company or have a huge budget to make their podcast, or to turn their apartment into a podcast studio. So I’d be happy to answer your, your question, Chip. I assume you will be able to attend that live Q&A.

ALEX:  Which we should say now.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  There is one coming up. We have made the plan, which was really just you and I, opening up Google Calendars on our respective phones are sitting next to each other. Trying to figure out–

BOBBY:  That’s how the fucking magic happens.

ALEX:  It is. That’s how the magic happens. June 14, that’s a Tuesday, it’s Flag Day in case any of you celebrate.

BOBBY:  Damn right, it’s Flag Day! And we’re going to spend the first 30 minutes of the 60-minute long live Q&A talking about how much Flag Day means to us.

ALEX:  We will be playing the Pledge of Allegiance prior to the session.

BOBBY:  And throughout, might just be dropped that Pledge of Allegiance whenever we feel it’s necessary.

ALEX:  June 14, 8pm, join us on Zoom.

BOBBY:  8 pm Eastern, Alex.

ALEX:  8 pm Eastern, yeah.

BOBBY:  Be specific, come on. You got people all–

ALEX:  [1:16:48]

BOBBY:  –over the league, dude. We have people all over the world listening to this podcast.

ALEX:  8 pm Eastern, should run for hour and a half. And it’s gonna be, it’s gonna be a blast. We hope to see many of you there. We’re trying to get to know some of you more and it’s been this feels like a natural extension of, of some of the conversations that have already been taken place in the Slack.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s right.

ALEX:  And, and it’s an open forum, man. We are, we’re, we’re open books, so this does not have to be remotely related to baseball, seriously.

BOBBY:  It’s finally time to accost Alex face to face for his horrendous Olivia Rodrigo takes in surrenders takes about jerseys or the designated hitter, or the litany of things that he has been just so wrong about over the years of the show.

ALEX:  [1:17:36] sure you weren’t wearing a jersey yesterday, and you didn’t want to do that?

BOBBY:  It’s too hot.

ALEX:  Oh, and so, so you’re saying this–

BOBBY:  Were you wearing a shersey? I’m just only allowed to wear things to baseball games that fit into this argument. So you weren’t wearing a shersey, so you also lose the argument? No, no, what, what stop trying to derail us at the end of the show?

ALEX:  Well [1:17:55]–

BOBBY:  With a nice perfect outro all set up. You know, we’re plugging the Patreon, patreon.com\tippingpitches, and you just have to throw it into the jersey-shersey thing again?

ALEX:  I, you, you brought it up, bro. Hey, I’m just saying you’re, my shersey. I don’t, I don’t have Cyclones shersey. Although I would purchase one and they think that it you know, assuming that it’s a, it’s a nice slight cotton. I think it’d be perfectly reasonable to wear wouldn’t, wouldn’t weigh me down too much. I just think it’s interesting.

BOBBY:  But you do own a Cyclones jersey? Let the record state that Alex does own a Cyclones jersey–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –but not shersey.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, it was handed to me going into a Mets game.

BOBBY:  Right. But you kept it so, so it was really getting this.

ALEX:  If you want to hear all the [1:18:43]–

BOBBY:  [1:18:43] no one’s winning this. We’re all losing including the people listening, this laid the podcast. June 14th, 8pm Eastern, live Q&A, I guess we’re calling it this is not really a Q&A. It’s just kind of a hang sesh. More information on how to get into that will be provided to everyone via Patreon messaging. And via the newsletter, which also released for the first time last week. We have so many updates to tell people nowadays. It’s no longer just do the podcast and stop. It’s like Hey, it’s your newsletter. Hey, live Q&As. Hey, thanks for signing up.

ALEX:  You know, here’s the thing, w,e we give Arte Moreno shit about not limiting his investments to the Los Angeles Angels. But, but are we not, are, are we not the podcasters version–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –of Arte Moreno? You know.

BOBBY:  We’re not. Thanks for the [1:19:36]–

ALEX:  Now we have so many, so many other projects, so many–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –other revenue stream.

BOBBY:  Thank you to everybody who read the newsletter. Like I said, the more information on the Q&A, the live hangouts sesh on June 14th, 8 pm Eastern. More information will come in the next edition of the newsletter, as well as on Slack, as well as in Patreon DMs. It will not be hard to find, if you would like to join. I, I don’t know exactly how it will work in terms of If you’re not able to join at that time. We may make a, make a recording available to those people who cannot join. But it will not run on the podcast anywhere that is, that is for damn sure.

ALEX:  I can tell you that, I can tell you that.

BOBBY:  I think that’s it. Except we have to give a shout out to our A. Rod., 5 A. Rod. to your patrons at the end of this podcast here unless you have anything else to add?

ALEX:  The last thing I’ll say before we shout these lovely patrons out is our episodes are now going to be available on YouTube.

BOBBY:  Oh true.

ALEX:  With closed captioning.

BOBBY:  Update hour here.

ALEX:  It’s, it’s the, it is the update hour, we should. This is when we eventually launch our second episode per week–

BOBBY:  Just gonna be updates.

ALEX:  –just updates.

BOBBY:  Hey, welcome to the nuts and bolts episode. My name is Bobby.

ALEX:  Anyway, if you prefer to, if you prefer to listen to your podcasts that way. If it has just been gratin, for you to open up Apple podcasts every week, and hit play. If you, if you prefer to just run that throughout the day on your computer, as you, as you get your work done or don’t get your work done. You can now do so, hit the link in our bio. You can check it out there. I’m sure if you, no, I actually if you Google Tipping Pitches it won’t come, it won’t come up. So scratch that. It’s in our bio–

BOBBY:  If you search Tipping Pitches Podcast on YouTube, it will come up. I did that the other day.

ALEX:  Wow.

BOBBY:  No guarantee is whether that only was the case because I am also one of the owners of Tipping Pitches and it just knows me like the second matrix knows me and whatever.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But and the YouTube is cool if you can, the YouTube is cool if you’re interested in following along. Listening to the audio as well as following along with the transcript which the closed captions on the YouTube video are from our official transcripts which we make available. There are still some small errors and stuff in there. But it’s not the automated YouTube closed caption system. Which is I would describe it as hit or miss Alex I would describe it as hit or miss. So all of that being said, here are the 5 Alex Rodriguez VIP Club, Producer level members from this week, who we want to give a special thank you to it is Kieran, Eric, Sam, Ben, and Ally. Mercifully this podcast is over, my friend. Unless you want to extend it more by saying something to the wonderful listeners who have made it this far.

ALEX:  See here’s the thing about sherseys, Bobby.

BOBBY:  So the DH. Thank you for listening everyone. We will be back, nextweek.

[1:22:36]

[Music]

[1:22:56]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMay 23, 2022Posted inAudio, Episode
Leave a comment on Paradise Over Pavement	
NFTee-Ball

Bobby and Alex trade prospective “get off my lawn” takes they’ll hold in future years, then take stock of the settlement in Senne v. MLB and how it might play into the future minor league economic system, discuss the recent ill-fated ventures into cryptocurrency around the league, and determine which players are certified Cool and decidedly Uncool.

Links:

Sign up for the Tipping Pitches Patreon 

Get your Tipping Pitches merch 

Senne v. MLB comes to a settlement 

MLB partners with Sorare for NFT game 

Nationals announce an ill-timed Terra partnership 

Songs featured in this episode:

Nelly — “Heart of a Champion” • My Chemical Romance — “The Foundations of Decay” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and, and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about? That’s amazing! That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I spent some time this past week with my older cousins. They’re in their 50s, 60s, they’re older gentlemen. They’re baseball fans, but they’re a little bit older. We’re talking about the Mets, talking about the Yankees. They’re asking me if there might be a Subway Series this year? But then they got started talking about, you know, there’s sort of more get off my lawn opinions about how starters should complete, should throw complete games. And all the rule changes are awful. Which, ironically enough are things that you and I agree with.

ALEX:  Right. It’s kind of a weird, like horseshoe theory of Baseball.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly. But it got me thinking, you know, if that is the crotchety old man take for them in 2022. What might be our version of that 35 years from now, when we’re that age? Look into the future and tell me what you think is going to be your crotchety old man opinion. That you’re sharing over lunch, over three quarters Italian dinner lunch. With your younger cousins, when they want to hear some, some Baseball wisdom from you.

ALEX:  That’s such a hard question, because it’s so hard to determine what bizarre changes will come about in baseball over that time, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Like, am I still gonna be going off on banning the shift at that point, once the shift is entirely banned?

BOBBY:  That will feel like settled, a settled conversation, though the DH conversation. After the American League introduced it continued basically until the present.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That’s not fun, though, you already feel that way.

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  Throw me something out creative.

ALEX:  Well, so then it has to be something that, that is not a part of the conversation at this point, right? People weren’t talking in the 60s and 70s, about how starters need to go longer. Because they were doing that at the time, right? So what is–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –what is the change that’s going to happen in the game that, that maybe radically alters our understanding, our consumption of it? Will players returned to hitting the ball the other way? And I’m going to say, man–

BOBBY:  I miss all those pull–

ALEX:  –back in–

BOBBY:  –pulled home runs.

ALEX:  –back in my day, players knew how to utilize that launch angle. Maybe, perhaps there will be a, a new advanced stat that comes about. And I say I remember when we just figured out who the best player in baseball was by WAR.

BOBBY:  Like WAR becomes the new RBIs basically?

ALEX:  Right. Or batting average or like wins or something like that.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I feel like that might be where, where I end up just because it’s like a such a poor understanding of how I interpret the game, right? Is a lot of the sabermetrics that are very in vogue right now, right? wRC+, these, these things that may seem–

BOBBY:  [3:39]

ALEX:  –seem a little bit opaque to the previous generation. I am certain that, that the generation that comes after us will decide that defense is the most important part of, of WAR and hitting is devalued completely. I’ll say–

BOBBY:  Just a league full of Ben Reveres.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. I mean, or I mean, this has already happened, right? But like, stolen bases, will stolen bases be so completely devalued? That they’re a rarity in the game, as they kind of already are, right? But will they be on the verge of extinction, to, to the point where I’m just begging a, you know, six foot, 250 pound first baseman to just try and make a scramble for second base?

BOBBY:  So I think that the gameplay changes happen so gradually, that I don’t think that I’ll ever get quite as crotchety about them. As I will definitely get about the incoming, I guess, technological revolution of the sport. Meaning like, remember when Clint was on the podcast, for The All-GIF draft? And he’s Buck Showalter, and then we were like anything else on your mind, anything you want plug? And he decided to just do a two and a half minute rant about how baseball is not supposed to involve this much technology.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  The thing that makes it interesting and wonderful is that you can, you can understand it just by looking with your eyes using your hands, using your feet. It’s just a very, it’s like a very tactile experience. And we’ve already seen the introduction of the pitch calm, which I don’t have strong feelings about necessarily. And we’re about to get robot umpires within the next 5 to 10 years. And that will lead you to believe that 35 years from now, there will be like a ton of tech. And therefore, like there will be tech companies with active investments in trying to win contracts for Major League Baseball. So I know that’s kind of like a general answer. But I think like the digitization of the game, I think will, will come to annoy me more than it already does. Like when you have to learn how to code to play baseball, competitively, I’m going to be pissed.

ALEX:  Right. When, when you are majoring in computer science, as opposed to like sports management–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –you know.

BOBBY:  Exactly. Because it helps you better understand like the big data that you get fed by your coaches like, ahh.. Nah!

ALEX:  So basically we’re saying the sport is about to become a bunch of nerds.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  And we remember when it was just jocks who had nothing bouncing around in their heads, they just knew how to, how to swing a bat and throw a ball.

BOBBY:  Right. We need to go the other way. I know that the whole like dog in him thing has been overused in, in the past two weeks since it became a meme. But we need, we need more focus on the dog and him of baseball. Rather than the zeros and ones of the game.

ALEX:  Right. And this is obviously nothing to say of like, the, the technological future that’s already upon us around sports betting and fucking blockchain, which, which we will get to, right? And, and who knows if that’s something that exists 30 years from now, or if we’re about to hear a big old pop? But I feel like I will, I will certainly yearn for the days when I collected baseball cards instead of like, JPEGs, you know.

BOBBY:  Counterpoint. My, my memes folder is looking pretty good.

ALEX:  It’s true.

BOBBY:  It’s looking pretty good.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I’ve built up the foundation. I have like 10 or 15 that I go to regularly.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I haven’t even used like 50% of them.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  They’re just in there, just in case, just in case the right situation comes–

ALEX:  Brake in case of emergency meme folder.

BOBBY:  Exactly, exactly. So maybe the, maybe the JPEG-ification of Baseball is a good thing? I don’t know–

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  –to be, to be determined.

ALEX:  –we have traded a brand around GIFs. So I suppose we can’t talk too much off our high horse.

BOBBY:  I just know that like, within the next 50 years, you actually won’t be able to go watch a baseball game in person. Like it’ll have to be some sort of digital barrier to it. Or they’re going to try to do that. And there’ll be a revolt. But what, what we’re seeing right now going to a baseball game of 50,000 people? I think 50 years that’ll probably be, be dead and I’ll be pissed about it.

ALEX:  You certainly–

BOBBY:  [8:10]

ALEX:  –and it’s because of that it exists, right now.

BOBBY:  By then we’ll have like robots with consciousness that always sit in the same seats and you can just inhabit one of them. Instead of actually like taking the seven train to City Field. You just like put on a–

ALEX:  Right [8:25] VR.

BOBBY:  –Oculus headset.

ALEX:  Yep.

BOBBY:  Yeah. And your quote unquote, “At the game”, nah, fuck that!

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Fuck that! That’s my prediction.

ALEX:  I’m on board with that.

BOBBY:  It seems eminently plausible. With the direction that, that society is heading.

ALEX:  Yep! Piped in audio noise.

BOBBY:  Then it won’t even matter if the field is on fire. Because of climate change.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  The players will just play through it.

ALEX:  So maybe it’s a good thing, right? We’ve, we want them to stick sports anyway.

BOBBY:  Or maybe there’ll be robots on the field like Rock’em Sock’em Robots, and they put on a VR headset to and they’re just playing MLB: The Show.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Or dream of making the majors realize.

ALEX:  I think the future we’re describing is just out of the park in baseball. Like Major League Baseball purchases it and says, people seem to enjoy this.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  This is, this is our sport now.

BOBBY:  This is the beautiful future that we always imagined on Tipping Pitches. When we talk about how can we make a better sport. We believe a better sport is possible where there’s actually no players and no fans and it all happens online. Okay, we’re going to talk about as Alex alluded to, the crypto crash and how it interacts with Major League Baseball in absurd ways. We’re going to talk about Stan versus MLB, which is the minor league lawsuit that was just settled this past week. And then we’re going to do a fun listener question for the back half of the podcast. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Okay, before we get into it, a quick shout out to all of our new patrons from this past week. If you listened last week, you know that we had to read every single new patron, which was 142 names. We don’t have that many names to read this week. Though, still, still a good showing from everyone, so much appreciated. Thank you to Stratton, Zach, Olive, Abel, Referu, Peter, Jess, William, Coco, Eric, Abby, Zack, and Chris.

ALEX:  Thank you, Mari, Coleen, Jesse, Peter, Drew, Mike, Dan, Bill, Sarah, Samantha, Tom, Sarah, and Jay.

BOBBY:  Reading this many names in a row always feels like you’re reading like a top 100 baby names in the US list. And there’s so many repeats. But we love, we love all of you equally. Thank you so much to everybody who signed up this week or last week, or at all. As a reminder, it’s patreon.com\tippingpitches, three tiers, you get great stuff in all of them. And you get access to the slack by signing up to any of them. And the slack is absolutely going off. It’s, it’s a fun way to procrastinate doing my work during the day.

ALEX:  Yeah, it’s like, did you wish Twitter was, was just people who held your same worldview about the sport we love? You love an echo chamber?

BOBBY:  Horrible sales pitch by Alex! It’s more like do you wish Twitter was fun?

ALEX:  Yep. Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Period.

ALEX:  Yeah. Not filled with toxicity.

BOBBY:  And Alex and I are in the slack popping in and out of different channels, talking music, sharing photos of ourselves from the pub concert.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Shout out, shout out to our man, Anthony, who we ran into at the pub concert.

ALEX:  That’s right.

BOBBY:  Very nice to meet you, sir. Let’s get into it, Alex. We’re going to start by talking about Stan versus MLB, which was a class action lawsuit, which is a class action lawsuit. Which has been going on for eight years now. It’s gone up and down through the courts and made it all the way to the Supreme Court to determine whether it was eligible to be a class action lawsuit, they made a ruling on that. The parameters of it cover quite a few people now at this point. And it centers around the fact that Minor League Baseball players are, should not be considered seasonal employees basically. And because of that must be paid for any work that they have travel to, must be paid for their travel time, things like this. So this lawsuit which a judge in California preliminarily ruled, before they even went to trial, that many of the minor leaguers were already owed damages. It was like a preliminary judgment before all the evidence was even put forward. It’s safe to say that this had, had potential to be both financially and reputationally very damaging to Major League Baseball. And they’re 30 teams, because basically every, every team is affected the same because they’re all legally colluding with each other. It was settled this past week. We don’t know the terms of the settlement agreement yet. And they’re not set to come out for another few weeks at the earliest. So we’ll talk about them more in detail when they do. But, but I’m curious what you think this means for the sort of rising tide movement of making progress in the better treatment of minor leaguers. That we’ve been chronicling for the last two and a half years of doing the show.

ALEX:  Yeah, and I mean, that’s, that’s the really tough thing to tr- to try and predict, right? Because as you mentioned, there was a, there was a ruling by, by Judge Joseph Spero in California. Back in March, that, that said MLB was in fact violating California wage law. And suggested that, that damages could be in the range of $2 million. And I think it was it seemed relatively evident that Major League Baseball was, was not interested in leaving it up to the courts to decide that they are owed millions more than that to minor league players outside of California. So there is obviously, there’s the outstanding size of the potential settlement, which again, could, you know, we may not learned about until as, as late as early July. But then there’s the factor of how Spero’s ruling will impact Minor League Baseball’s wage structure moving forward, right? Because at this point, he has ruled that they were acting illegally. And I mean, I guess they could keep doing it.

BOBBY:  Yes, a company violating wage law has not necessarily precluded them from violating wage law in the future.

ALEX:  Right, yes.

BOBBY:  But I think that long, long, rich history in America of companies continually violating wage law and not getting punished for it.

ALEX:  Yeah. But certainly the size and scope of this lawsuit combined with the increasing public scrutiny of the actions of Major League Baseball, when it comes two minor league players. I think it’s probably enough for them to maybe start to reevaluate what that payment structure looks like. Now, does this mean they’re going to voluntarily recognize minor league players as year round MLB employees? No, I think arguably, nothing short of a union will actually get Major League Baseball on board with that. But it, it may impact things like you said, like payment during spring training. Like compensation for time it takes to travel to games. Payment for work that players are required to do in the offseason.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  This will come nowhere near to compensating them for the actual value that they’re providing for teams right now. But if it means that players are making more than 8, 9, 10 thousand dollars in a year? I think it’s, it’s something, it’s some sort of movement. And you and I were discussing earlier in the week, how we really felt about the decision to settle because on–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –the one hand–

BOBBY:  Standing around waiting for [16:34] come on talking about the minor league settlement.

ALEX:  [16:36]. On the one hand, there are hundreds of players who are owed back pay due to these violations of wage law. On the other hand, if you go to trial, there’s obviously much broader implications that it could have on, on the sport, and there’s probably a lot that would come out in a sort of trial like that.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  That would leave Major League Baseball, very vulnerable, even more so than they already are. Both to having to owe even more in damages, and letting things see the light of the day that maybe they are not so inclined to let see the, the light of day.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think, so, I think oftentimes, when we talk about the role of the justice system, in the world of labor, at large, we have this false dichotomy where you can either settle and like get more cash immediately, upfront. Or you can ride it out to its bitter end, and try to do the righteous thing of exposing the company, in this case, MLB and it’s 30 teams, for the true nefariousness of their practices. And the reason that we presume most companies would prefer to settle is because they don’t want to go to discovery. And they don’t want what you’re describing to happen. They don’t want you and me to be talking about what they told a player when the player was like, did you guys violate California wage law? And they lied to him. And now we’re here with this trial. They just don’t want those things to come to the light of day, and it’s a headache for them. And so they may pay a little more upfront, they may give a slightly larger settlement, they may add a 10% bonus. A 10 30% premium on top of what these people are actually owed, in order to not have to go to trial. Now, I say that’s a false dichotomy, because not for good reasons, for bad reasons. Because the righteous element that taking it through the courts element doesn’t always work. In fact, most of the time doesn’t work how you intended it to. We might go to discovery and you and I might learn, you and I in the greater baseball media world might learn exactly what MLB was doing to fuck with minor leaguers. And we might have that information to work with for the fight for the future. But that might not actually help the people that need the help. That might actually help get money in the pockets of the members of this class action lawsuit. Which is what a lawsuit is for. Organizing and changing the Minor League Baseball system is not going to happen because of this lawsuit. You can use the momentum from a lawsuit like this. And I think that’s where you where you and I have to wait and see what’s in the agreement, the settlement agreement before we determine whether or not it would have been better to kind of wait it out and go all the way through. It would have been better for the, the movement to unionize Minor League Baseball to wait it out and go all the way through and hold MLBs feet to the fire. But it’s not always going to, it’s not up to us to determine that. Like that’s what the lawyers are for. They determined what to recommend as a settlement agreement. And then the, the client determines if that’s a better option for them. And, and it probably is, it, if we’re being honest, it probably is better for these minor leaguers who are in the class action lawsuit to settle it. I have no idea whether it’s better or not for like the unionize the minors crowd. Which we are obviously a vocal part of. But after having rambled on about the, the sort of two options that you have, for the last five minutes, I will, I will close by saying this, which is that, we shouldn’t need this lawsuit. Or, or people who are on the fence about whether we should fix Minor League Baseball shouldn’t need this lawsuit to change their minds about that. Like we already have mountains and mountains and mountains of evidence of really poor treatment by a billion dollar teams. Multibillion dollar teams with multibillion dollar owners who are profiting like they never have before off of the sport. We already have all of that evidence. So organize, and get out in the field and actually get enough people on board to eventually unionize Minor League Baseball. I don’t know that this lawsuit would have been make or break in that effort. But I think that, I think that some people rightfully get a lot of hope when they see legal proceedings coming against the company. I just don’t think that that is often the reason that you get large structural changes. Like we got free, free agency is in Major League Baseball, because of the Curt Flood court case, but he lost that court case. They only got that because of the organization that happened after they lost the court case. So my knee jerk reaction was to be like, ah, they settled, I wish we would have taken this all the way through. But then I had to sit with that for a little while and be like, that’s maybe not the right opinion to have right away. And so we know and understand the settlement agreement and how it helps the people involved in it.

ALEX:  Yeah, this is one data point. This is one puzzle piece that fits into that larger movement. And at the very least sets a sort of precedent that you actually can take on an organization like Major League Baseball, which wields incredible social and political power and win. So like, it feels more like the one of the first dominoes to fall than the, the really big one, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah, I agree. It’s not, no one thing is the end all be all of this organizational effort. Okay, shall we move on to MLB’s other large shady structural practices?

ALEX:  Right, speaking of dominoes falling.

BOBBY:  That’s a much better segue. Congratulations on winning the segway off for this episode of Tipping Pitches. Alex, crypto it’s not sent a little bit of a slump, we might say in baseball terms. It’s cratering.

ALEX:  It’s got the yips.

BOBBY:  It’s got the yips, let’s get to. You know way more about this than me, because you went on one of your 2am. rabbit hole deep dives into what the hell is going on? And what MLB is association with this is. And so you wanted to talk a little bit about how, how much MLB has opened themselves up here, like left themselves unprotected with how quickly and aggressively they’ve dived into the crypto space.

ALEX:  There were kind of two pieces of crypto related news that came out of baseball this week, right? One was that Major League Baseball and the Players Association announced a, a new venture in partnership with Sorare.

BOBBY:  How confident are you that it’s not Sarare? On a scale of 1 to 10, how confident? Come on! There’s a little party that’s like it could be Sarare?

ALEX:  Yeah, well, I’m like, I’m like a three.

BOBBY:  But then like, it’s a crypto thing. So it’s probably like Sorare, bro. Like they probably thought of that. And they were like we’ll just put those words together and name with that. Elon will think this is so cool.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly. Well, becoming rarer and rarer as we speak. They announced a, a forthcoming game with So- Sorare, Sorare. Which is already known for it’s relatively popular NFT Soccer games over in Europe.

BOBBY:  How relative are we talking?

ALEX:  Right. As, as popular as a NFT-based fantasy Soccer game can be. I don’t know man Soccer is bigger than in Europe than Baseball is in the US.

BOBBY:  That’s true. More users than listeners of this podcast. So we don’t have that much room to talk.

ALEX:  Right. Exactly. MLB announced a, what is essentially a version of that, that they are positioning as a sort of engagement tool for fans a way for fans to see collect virtual cards, build these, these virtual teams. Compete against other players, all based on how the players are actually performing on the field. Which I see no pr- no problem with creating tradable pieces of electronic currency tied to the real world value of human beings, I think it’s a very good idea. I, I see no potential issues regarding ethics or morals in this whatsoever.

BOBBY:  Every time someone tries to describe something in the crypto world to me, it’s like, the ultimate end goal is something that already exists. This is just fantasy sports.

ALEX:  Yep. Uh-hmm. This is failed–

BOBBY:  Fantasy sports–

ALEX:  This is failed–

BOBBY:  –fantasies–

ALEX:  Right, meets, meets the, the fake stock market. The details on this are, are relatively sparse. We know that you will, you will be gifted some, some free cards when you sign up. You can collect cards as you go on.

BOBBY:  Your first trip to the Caribbean is free. But the ones after that you have to get three people to come with you, in order for you to go free.

ALEX:  Now, the, this, this game is, is, as I mentioned, popular among soccer fans in Europe. It’s also somewhat controversial, because cash prizes are paid out to users, it’s pretty, entirely unregulated. There is actually relatively little known about the where the money is actually coming from. It’s a, it’s a hedge fund that is composed of a, a group of players that, that back these cash prizes. That element isn’t going to exist in the Baseball version. So not covering, covering their asses and in one space. But it was, it was certainly, it, it made waves on Baseball Twitter. I think because of the recent volatility of the NFT market, right? There’s obviously we heard a lot about NBA Top Shot early last year, and its incredible valuation and its subsequent, incredible cratering.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm. Who could have seen that coming?

ALEX:  As I mentioned, little is known about the mechanics of the game, so we can’t speak too much to that. The other news item that came out this week, which was, which tracked far more with current events was the Washington Nationals partnership with Terra. Which is a, a blockchain network that creates an, an algorithmic stable coin. Which is supposed to be less volatile than your average crypto currency. It’s supposed to be pegged to the US dollar. There’s a, there’s a, there’s a lot that goes into it. And the Washington Nationals tweeted out a very helpful video kind of breaking it down. Crypto 101, presented by Terra, that happened to be on the day that Terra decoupled from the US dollar and went directly into the tank. As of today, you actually cannot trade or use Terra, it has been been halted by the blockchain markets. Oooh… Once again, I’m not sure who could have seen this coming. But both of these speak to baseball’s desperation, their their desperate desire to create new pathways into the game, right? To hopefully broaden the the market of fans who say may not be as interested in baseball but have more of an interest in crypto. Or the, the average baseball fan, who says hey, here’s a new way to engage. And the obvious glaring problem here is that very little is known–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –about, about a lot of these stable coins, and they’re actually, what do you call it? Stability!

BOBBY:  I think, well, number one, I think MLB isn’t so far over their head. They’re just, they just seem like a brand right now. That takes a lot of meetings and it’s easily swayed.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like let’s get into and, and this is true of like all sports leagues, where they think that their sport needs to be some- somehow like a government? Like they need to do all types of things. They need to centralize power by having a little bit of put their hand in, in every element of society. We can’t just let the crypto fad go by without having the Nationals partner with Terra. Or the Mets partner with TEZO’s. Or the NBA, officially, partner with NBA Top Shot. We have to, we have to be a part of it. And that, that’s true of all leagues, but MLB’s feel so out of touch with reality. Because for the most part, they are like a very traditional sport, and a very traditional sports league that has leveraged something that makes sense to a lot of people and make sense of their product to make a lot of money and that’s television. And so when they try to make these forays into things that they clearly don’t, don’t know about. They’re, there’s mere seconds away from showing their ass at all, at all time, at all moments in time.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And I just wonder, when I see stuff like this, I just wonder why it has to be like this? Why can’t you just be a sport? Just, just be a sport, like people like your sport. So just be a sport.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Don’t be a bank. Don’t be a real estate development company. Don’t be a political lobbying firm. Don’t be a consulting company. Don’t be a big data firm.

ALEX:  The list goes on.

BOBBY:  No, I’m serious, though. Like, and if you are going to be something, be like a force for societal good, which they never are. MLB is never like, we’re going to make sure we stop climate change. MLB’s never like, you know what, we’re gonna try to lobby so that we can pack the Supreme Court. They’re never like–

ALEX:  Do match.

BOBBY:  –they’re never doing anything that actually helps. Like anyone really, but, but honestly, that never it helps. They’re never doing anything that helps a majority or plurality of the people who actually liked their sport. They’re never using any of their power and acclaim and political influence to do that. They’re just doing stuff like this.

ALEX:   Yeah.

BOBBY:  They’re just, they’re just like taking checks from crypto companies.

ALEX:  Right. This is this is like the New York Yankees in 2007. Saying, we heard about these subprime mortgages.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  You can, you can use them at our ballpark.

BOBBY:  I don’t think they were calling them subprime mortgages at the time.

ALEX:  But no, I mean, and the thing about crypto is that it has value ascribed to it, insofar as all of the users agree that it has value ascribed to it.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Right? And like that’s, that is kind of central to the, the downfall of Terra, which was thought to be leading the way for this more stable form of, of crypto currency. And then there was a run on the bank. And everyone said, hang on a second–

BOBBY:  Tail as all this time.

ALEX:  –it might, I, it might be time to cash out.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I mean, ultimately, I’m, I’m not sure how much the Washington, the Nationals care as long as the checks keep clearing.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s not going to keep happening, but yeah.

ALEX:  Right. Well, exactly, right? And it’s it feels like it’s only a matter of time, before a team or an owner or something like that inextri- inextricably ties their wealth or their success to a fundamentally unstable market, right? I mean, it was just a year ago, that we were joking about Steve Cohen’s hedge fund, propping up the short position against GameStop, right? And subsequently–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –burning through–

BOBBY:  10s of millions of dollars.

ALEX:  –quite, quite a lot of money.

BOBBY:  Hundreds of millions of dollars.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  So like this is far from the first time this sort of thing has happened. But what is frightening is it seems to be far from the last time that it will happen. And you start to wonder when they will learn their lesson. And they just seem so anxious to try and be on the cutting edge. Without really properly doing a Wikipedia search of let me see if the person I’m going into business with is currently being hunted down by the SEC. Because the, the creator of Terra was at the time the Nationals linked their deal.

BOBBY:  I think overextended is the word that I would use to describe MLB and most of its individual teams, overextended. They’re trying to do too much And the result is no fan feels spoken to. You said something that I thought was interesting, which is that presumably the company line with crypto partnerships, NBA Top Shot, memorabilia markets. Presumably the reason that they are so interested in it or what they would tell you if you sat them down at a press conference is, oh, this is such an interesting way to get new people interested in the sport. Like maybe you don’t like baseball because you didn’t grow up playing Little League. But you might care about cryptocurrency. And so you might like us because now we are telling you we care about cryptocurrency. But here’s the problem, anyone who knows anything about cryptocurrency or doesn’t even have to be crypto, it can be anything. Anyone who knows anything about crypto knows that MLB doesn’t know anything about crypto. So who is the, who’s the crypto bro who doesn’t give one fuck about Mike Trout? Who’s going to be like now I’m gonna get really into baseball the product?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Now I’m going to start going to games.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Now I’m going to buy MLB TV, that, that person does not exist. I challenge anyone listening to this podcast if I knew one person who was like, yeah, I got super into the Nats. Man, Nelson Cruz having a, having a tough year. You know why I got into them? I was, I had a lot had a big position on Terra.

ALEX:  Yep, I was, I was able to buy a hot dog with my, with my Terra coin. Right, they’re not, they’re not selling baseball.

BOBBY:  No!

ALEX:  And, and to be frank, they haven’t been for a while.

BOBBY:  I know. But like, if that’s the company in line, though, if the reason that you are partnering with Terra is because you want to get crypto people into Baseball, it’s obviously not. Just fucking spend your time making little league more accessible.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That will do way better–

ALEX:  [36:51] investments.

BOBBY:  –forgetting [36:52] in the next couple decades. Like you want to, you want people to like baseball? Help people play baseball.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You know why I like Baseball? Played it. You know why Alex likes Baseball? He played it. Do you know why most of the people who are we friends with like baseball? They or someone they know played it.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Or their parents played it and showed them it at a young age.

ALEX:  Yeah. I mean, and the, the cynical response to that is, you, you can’t make money off of a kid liking Little League., right? You can’t–

BOBBY:  No, but you can, though.

ALEX:  I, I mean, yes, I know.

BOBBY:  They, I, I know, because I’m giving them so much money. I am giving them four figures, 1000s of dollars a year of my own money just to consume their product. And it’s has nothing to do with what they did. It has to do with the fact that I played Little League, and I fell in love with the game. And this is the best version of the game that I can watch now. Period. And it’s, it’s confounding to me that they’re not more concerned about creating more people like us. And preferably more people who don’t necessarily look like us. Because they have never catered to people who don’t look like us in a thoughtful or creative way. And it’s just weird, like for this group of, quote unquote, “like old school owners”. Or a traditionalist sport that we think baseball to be. It’s weird that they don’t think like that, but they don’t think about the long term investment. Like these are like real estate guys. These are stock market guys. These are old money, old world people. They should understand that investing now, in growing the game would actually pay off for them in not that long. But they don’t seem to understand that.

ALEX:  Right. Well, and I think it’s, part of that is, they are not interested in the long term because they are, are not for the, the long term, right? Lots of these guys–

BOBBY:  More like they’re gonna be dead.

ALEX:  I mean, what good is the health of the sport [38:57]–

BOBBY:  [38:57] Alex? Are you threatening the owners of the podcast?

ALEX:  I am certainly not threatening John Fisher whatsoever.

BOBBY:  John Fisher, you are not being threatened at all.

ALEX:  Once again, this podcast is parody.

BOBBY:  What?! So, so you are threatening in there. You’re saying you’re not threatening him and that it’s parody. Get your story straight, sir.

ALEX:  Yeah, I, I mean, yeah, it’s, it’s unfortunate that they choose instead of choosing to build the game from the ground up at the community level, they are instead choosing to cash out in very obvious Ponzi schemes. That–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –frankly, are preying on actual individuals–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –who are, I, to put it lightly having their lives ruined by this sort of thing.

BOBBY:  If we’re to get super 20 Something lefty galaxy brain theory of, of global capitalism about it, it does kind of reflect a larger shift in how billionaires think about their income streams. Where if you were a real estate Baron in like, the 20th century, you were like, oh, I’ll just corner the market on building houses and I’ll own all of the means of production. Then I’ll sell the houses and then I’ll make a ton of money. And now it’s like, why would I do all of that when I could just be a slumlord? That’s like the shift in society and it’s also the shift in Baseball. These are just 30 ownership groups being slumlords with our sport.

ALEX:  Right. Well–

BOBBY:  Ruining it and also profiting off of it at the same time. They’re not improving the product, they’re letting it become dilapidated. And they understand that they don’t have to invest any of their own money to continue to turn a profit off.

ALEX:  Right. Well, if you look at the increasing wealth disparity in both the US and around the world, I think they’re saying hmm, who do we want to be in bed with? The, the, the 98% who might love the game but have very little money to give us? Or the, the for the folks at the top? Who don’t give two shits about baseball. But will allow me to pad my pocket book a little bit? I don’t know, man. I, it feels too obvious to say out loud sometimes.

BOBBY:  That capitalism is the problem?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  It’s been a while since we’ve done one of these.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  Okay, you have anything else on crypto? You want to any investment advice for people? Is now the time to buy the dip.

ALEX:  Right, ex- yes, it is!

BOBBY:  You get credentialed to go to a Mike Rizzo press conference and you ask him, Mike, should I buy the dip on Terra?

ALEX:  The thing is I think he has no fucking clue what Terra is.

BOBBY:  Hey, Juan Soto, nice to meet you. Alex Bazeley, from Tipping Pitches here. I know that you had a little bit of a slow start to the season and you’re starting to turn it around. Do you think that Terra can do the same?

ALEX:  Right. Is it time to buy in on Ethereum>

BOBBY:  Okay, we’re gonna take a quick break. When we come back we are going to do each five capital “C”, Cool players and five lowercase “u” uncool players.

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, Alex. For listening this late in the podcast, you probably know that we have a Patreon. You might even be signed up for that Patreon. You might have even seen this question in the podcast mailbag Slack channel, which you can get access to if you sign up for that patreon@patreon.com\tippingpitches. This question came from longtime listener, many time question asker. One of our faves, Becca, who first presented an argument that she was having with her friend. currently in an argument with a friend who was a Yankees fan who thinks Anthony Rizzo is cooler than Tim Anderson. I disagree. Who were a few players that you guys think are capital “C”, Cool, and lowercase “u”, uncool? Now I thought this was a very good question. So we decided to make it the entire last segment of this podcast, we are going to answer that question by naming five cool and five uncool players. First, I want to, I want to make a ruling on Becca’s argument with her friend. There’s absolutely no world in which Anthony Rizzo is cooler than Tim Anderson. I’m sorry. Even if you think Anthony Rizzo is cool, which I’m not convinced. I think he’s nice. I think he’s fun. I think he’s good hang. He’s probably a good friend.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  If he was in this room right now, I think the three of us would be having a good time.

ALEX:  Well, and here’s the thing.

BOBBY:  But I don’t think that I would be like when he left, I don’t think I’d be like that guy.

ALEX:  [43:46]

BOBBY:  Cool. Cool.

ALEX:  I will say, now, so Anthony Rizzo isn’t on my capital “C”, Cool players list. However, he does remain the only current MLB player who has walked up to a Taylor Swift song. So the jury might still be out on.

BOBBY:  Okay, but Swifties we’re not all cool.

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  Like in fact, maybe a point towards uncool–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –if you are a Swifty.

ALEX:  But, but if you’re–

BOBBY:  Like, if we’re, if we’re doing it the system, the how the good place does it where like, every action that you have is either a point towards you getting to the good place or a point towards you going to the bad place.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Swiftly is probably a bad place, more often than not.

ALEX:  Yeah, true. Though, is it, is it a point in cools favor, that he is unabashedly a Swifty?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Right?

BOBBY:  See now we’re, now we’re cooking with gas. This is–

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  –this is where our headspace is? Either way, Tim Anderson is cooler.

ALEX:  Yes. Yeah!

BOBBY:  I’ve shared space with Tim Anderson. He is as cool as he looks on TV, potentially even cooler.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Tim Anderson doesn’t even pretend to know other players in his division, if he’s never played against them before.

ALEX:  That’s the coolest fucking thing I’ve ever heard.

BOBBY:  He just goes out, and he just plays baseball. He started playing baseball in high school and he is already one of the best shortstops. On the face of the planet, he’s a, he’s a cool guy, he’s a cool guy. I’ll let you do the honors of going first. Let’s, let’s trade off between our cool and uncool lists. It will be pretty obvious which, which list these guys fall under.

ALEX:  Yeah. And I, and I want to say I’ve, in both categories, I’ve, I’ve elected to leave off some of the more obvious ones. Especially when it comes to, to the cool guys. I, I think Sean Doolittle might be the coolest player in baseball.

BOBBY:  See- okay, wait. Sean Doolittle is the most with it player in baseball. But is he cool?

ALEX:  I think he is. Yes.

BOBBY:  See, I think when I saw like, capital “C”, Cool, I was picturing like, suave. I don’t think–

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  –Sean is like–

ALEX:  No!

BOBBY:  Sean is like Sean rocks.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But is he cool? Sean is dope. But is he cool?

ALEX:  Okay, I mean, that’s, that’s interesting. We should have, we should have set the definitions of, of cool, right.

BOBBY:  I mean, he’s cool. Like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –he’s cool that he like Star Wars. It is cool that he likes metal–

ALEX:  [46:13]

BOBBY:  –and he’s cool he’s actually a lefty [46:15]–

ALEX:  [46:15]

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s cool. But is he cool?

ALEX:  Right. Okay. All right. So here’s–

BOBBY:  He walked in the room, you’d be like, that’s a normal guy that I can have a conversation with. You wouldn’t be like, he’s so cool. I can’t talk to him.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah, fair. Okay. So–

BOBBY:  Say that, but then my list violates that rule.

ALEX:  No!

BOBBY:  So it’s fine, it’s fine. I’m a fraud.

ALEX:  First cool guy, maybe the most obvious one in, in Major League Baseball right now. And that’s Jazz Chisholm Jr. Probably the, the coolest player in the sport at the moment.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s pretty cool.

ALEX:  Between the, the way that he plays the game, which is just with such a bravado, and swagger. And the way that he talks about the game, which is with both a, a reverence for it, and also a desire for it to feature more of that bravado and swagger. I am, and the fact that he has blue hair.

BOBBY:  Yeah, blue hair.

ALEX:  Ice cool. Yep. Yeah.

BOBBY:  You should dye your hair blue.

ALEX:  I could do like maybe like a, like a blue like strip, you know?

BOBBY:  Oooh, yeah.

ALEX:  Like real–

BOBBY:  Can you grow–

ALEX:  –like [47:18] face.

BOBBY:  Yes. Yes. Like dashboard confessional. over one eye.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And the hair that’s going over one is blue.

ALEX:  Yeah. I mean, My Chemical Romance just dropped a new song. So we’re trending in that direction.

BOBBY:  –right, they did. Not only did they just drop a new song, it’s the song that’s gonna play this podcast out. Because it’s my turn to pick the music this week. I guess I’m giving that away. It’s supposed to be a little game that people play. It’s gonna be pretty obvious. Okay, my first cool guy. You know who’s cool? Starling Marte.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Yes, sir!

BOBBY:  He is cool as fuck, I don’t even know how to describe it. He’s a super nice looking guy. He’s confident, he has a swagger. He’s got the buttons unbuttoned like super, super low down to the middle of his chest. He, he wears the jewelry. He never looks uncomfortable on the field, which I feel like is an important part to being one of the coolest baseball players–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –in the league. And you know, everything, everything with his style. The haircut is always fresh. The beard is always tended to. This is a cool guy.

ALEX:  He’s cool. Also good at baseball. Helps, helps to be good.

BOBBY:  He’s pretty good.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He’s pretty good. Worth it.

ALEX:  Steals, steals bases, you know what’s cool?

BOBBY:  Stealing bases.

ALEX:  Stealing bases.

BOBBY:  Yes, stealing bases is fucking cool as hell. Okay. It’s your turn to do an uncool guy.

ALEX:  Okay, you know who’s uncool? Blake Snell. So–

BOBBY:  [48:43]

ALEX:  Corniest motherfucker in the league.

BOBBY:  Wow. Wow, he’s gonna put us on blast on Twitch.

ALEX:  I hope he does. Him in his like Black Scent like–

BOBBY:  Yeah, Yup!

ALEX:  He, he’s just goofy. He’s a guy that tries so hard to be cool. And I feel like that characterizes maybe a lot of the guys on my uncoolest is guys who are like, no, I am cool. Like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –as soon as you come out and put yourself forth as a cool guy, you’re uncool.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  Sorry.

BOBBY:  I agree. His, his 97-mile an hour fastball from the left side is pretty cool sometimes, though.

ALEX:  Yeah!

BOBBY:  No, he hasn’t been very good for like three years. But–

ALEX:  [49:26]

BOBBY:  [49:27] to each their own. My first uncool player fits that same description that you just described. He, he tries really, really, really hard to be cool. Last you think I’m a, a Mets homer choosing Sterling Marte, as my first cool player. I’m choosing Pete Alonso as my first uncool player.

ALEX:  Yes, sir.

BOBBY:  This is maybe a little bit too obvious. He is so uncool that it’s almost cool, but it’s not.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He is incredibly awkward, both physically and I think like spiritually? Like in the way that he talks and the things that he likes. And he got his polar bear nickname from, from Todd Frazier. Because of the way he like walks around, he kind of looks like a polar bear when he goes up on. When polar bears go up on their two legs.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And that’s true, but that makes you uncool. The pre- the prevailing image that I think of when I think of Pete being uncool is him just bobbing his head at the Home Run Derby. While, like, I don’t even remember Mobb Deep was playing.

ALEX:  Right, right.

BOBBY:  Okay, you’re from Florida,

ALEX:  Right. Yeah, the ultimate try hard he’s good at baseball. So what are you, what are you gonna do?

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s good at some things. Okay, cool, cool guy. Your turn.

ALEX:  It should be a call guy? Jose Ramirez.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Just, just does his, it does his thing–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –unabashedly, I think that his cool factor was admittedly heightened when Francisco Lindor played directly to the left of them. Because they are both extremely cool. And when you’re in the presence of someone else who radiates that coolness, I think they kind of, they, they double down on each other. I. I think I’ve said this before, but like, I love the way he walks up to the plate. Like he does not look like he’s about to be a 40-40 player or one of the best disheveled. Yes. When he walks up to the plate, right? Huge, huge cheek full of two. It’s like, like, it almost is ruffian. Right. Yeah. Where I’m like, This guy is not one of the one of the best players of his generation.

BOBBY:  Kind of like he’s doing a bit.

ALEX:  That’s right.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Swings out of his ass every single time. That’s extremely cool. He has, he has not had his swing the way he plays like, Tinker down to a science. He’s a guy who, who just sticks with what he knows.

BOBBY:  It definitely is more of an art for him.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  When I watch him play like, I’m, I’m always like, I’m always like, weirdly surprised by what he does.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like, wow, I didn’t expect you to make that diving stop to save this game against the White Sox while they collapsed. Though I know that you’re a wonderful defender. It just didn’t look like you were gonna be able to get over there. And then all of a sudden, you’re like we have the teleporting. He’s so cool. He’s, yeah, he’s really cool. I liked what you said about Lindor, there’s sort of like a coupling effect when you’re around other cool people. If you’re around another cool person, and you look less cool. It’s a great indicator that you’re uncool. Like if your lack of cool is exposed by being next to a cool pe- you can’t–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –be cool with another cool person. You’re not cool.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  You’re a fraud.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You’re a fraud. My next cool person, Brett Phillips.

ALEX:  Yeah. Yup!

BOBBY:  This is the guy who goes against the Sean Doolittle argument that I was trying to make.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So maybe I’ll, I’ll admit that Sean’s cool. Sean, I’m sorry for saying that you’re uncool. Though, I think that he would describe himself as uncool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Brad Phillips is so funny.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He’s just fucking–

ALEX:  He’s weird, man.

BOBBY:  –[52:58] a weirdo. And he has one of the most pure senses of humor, and hearts and spirits of any player that I’ve seen on a Major League Baseball field.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Since we started doing this. He’s like, he has absolutely no shame. He, when he, he’s there a position player who pitches. He has a cannon, he has an absolute cannon. And he goes up there and because they don’t want him to get injured, he throws 54 mile an hour curveballs that get obliterated by one of the best players of all time in Mike Trout.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And he still makes faces at Trout as he’s going around the bases afterwards and then goes on Twitter and tweeted him saying, “You got lucky hitting that one out”.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That is cool. I don’t like, I don’t care. It’s such confidence. It’s like class clown cool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And I think that the sport is better for it.

ALEX:  Well, and it, I think it helps because he knows that he is not a star. He’s, he’s not the best player on the Rays. But he’s had his moments in the spotlight. And I think is totally fine with that. He doesn’t need to be the center of attention on the baseball field. He’s just a dude who’s like, happy to be there.

BOBBY:  Yep. Yep. We need more, we need more people like Brett Phillips. Okay. uncool.

ALEX:  Uncool. Marcus Stroman, brutally uncool!

BOBBY:  See, I think that some people think he’s cool, though.

ALEX:  I know. I mean, he’s a guy who like if you watch him play baseball, you probably think he is one of the coolest players on the field.

BOBBY:  Right. He plays cool.

ALEX:  He plays extremely cool!

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  He tweets extremely uncool. Like he is his own worst enemy. If we’re, if we’re being quite honest.

BOBBY:  I have no comment on this.

ALEX:  I know you don’t.

BOBBY:  I have no comment. He’s a good photographer. That’s cool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Photography is cool.

ALEX:  Yeah. I mean–

BOBBY:  He’s a good pitcher.

ALEX:  –and he might be a, a good hang. Might be, if you don’t get them talking about crypto.

BOBBY:  Bans topic, bans topic.

ALEX:  True. You’re right.

BOBBY:  That’s a penalty for you. 5 minutes in the penalty box. Bans topic. Okay uncool. Corey Seager.

ALEX:  All right. Explain.

BOBBY:  He’s not cool at all!

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He doesn’t look cool playing. He just goes up there. He has the most boring swing. The most boring fielding mechanics. I’m not saying they’re bad. And I’m not saying he’s bad. He’s the one of the best uncool players in baseball.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He’s like, six, the least interesting six WAR you’ve ever seen in your life. Oh, look at that. Oh, he shot it the other way and then stand up double the second. No emotion.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  There’s Corey Seager again.

ALEX:  See, I think–

BOBBY:  He even looks like a creative player.

ALEX:  I think of him is just like, boring in the way that like Mike Trout is boring. Where he’s like, extremely good. But like, I don’t think Mike Trout is resolutely like, uncool. Like I don’t–

BOBBY:  I think Mike Trout is so uncool that he’s cool. He’s one of the guys who actually walks that fine line.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like he, he likes weather. That’s cool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  If you like something that other people think is boring, but you like really earnestly like it. I think that’s kind of cool.

ALEX:  Right. That people have hobbies. That remains to be, it feels like a, a bit that got out of hand, you know. Like, it’s kind of like, oh, there’s Mike Trout weather guy. Like, this Mike Trout guy likes weather. And he like went along with it. And now he’s into deep and so now he has to have The Weather Channel on–

BOBBY:  See, I think–

ALEX:  Like all time.

BOBBY:  –well, I think that he probably likes weather just fine.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Way more than the average person likes to think about the weather. But I also think that it’s a real indictment of baseball media, that they can’t think of anything more interesting to say about Mike Trout or interesting to learn about Mike Trout, than the fact that he has whether. It’s proof that baseball media is actually uncool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  His words just we’re just like, Oh, haha, Mike Trout, here comes the weather joke again.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It’s all we’ve got.

BOBBY:  Okay, we’re on cool again.

ALEX:  Cool. Andrew McCutchen.

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  Again, this feels obvious if we’re being honest.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Just like I probably should have left him off the list, given my caveat up top. But like he fits he, it seems to me like he fits in that kind of Curtis Granderson mold of like being a, a genuinely good dude. He’s also extremely weird online, which like, I just have an affinity for, right. He has the, the weirdest posts on his Instagram,–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –on his Twitter. He’s like, engaging, and he like knows how to use them the platform. Actually, he’s not just tweeting out sponsorships, and retweeting like teammate highlights. He’s actually like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –in his mentions.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But not in a toxic way.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  That’s cool to me.

BOBBY:  Okay. That’s a good one. I think he’s pretty cool. I think he’s a little bit obvious. A little played out for me.

ALEX:  He is little, yeah.

BOBBY:  You know, he’s cool. Like Nirvana was cool. Not cool anymore. Now we’ve moved on. Just kidding, Nirvana was cool as fuck. Are you kidding me? This is my third guy who is cool. His name is J.P. Crawford.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Shortstops are cool, most of the time. And then they have to like actively become uncool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  By being a certain way like Corey Seager. And J.P. has done nothing but make himself seems even cooler to me. I don’t even really know much about him. Like as a guy, what his personality is, like what he’s into. But just his aesthetic is very, very cool to me. So J.P. Crawford.

ALEX:  And he’s good, he’s having a bit of a coming out year. [58:36] this year.

BOBBY:  His OPS is like 950 right now.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So, that helps.

ALEX:  Uncool. Mike Clevinger.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like he kind of does, does the work for us on this one. Like, there are guys who are weird and cool. And there are guys who are weird and just feel like a little toxic. Like he radiates like toxic positivity almost, right? His whole thing is like, is like hippie, like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –sunshine and flowers, man. Like, I’m just all like, like peace and love in the world. And you get the sense that he just kind of wanted to create that brand for himself. Because he thought it would like make him cool.

BOBBY:  You can’t be about all peace, love, and rainbows in the world if you’re also like, just a barstool guy.

ALEX:  Right, and getting into like, getting into like fights with fans online. Which he did a couple years ago.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t know. I just, I ju- he’s just the kind of guy I’m like, I don’t, I don’t trust you.

BOBBY:  See, this is a good example of somebody who like has, for whatever reason, just developed a lot of clout amongst baseball highlights, Instagram pages.

ALEX:  Right, yeah.

BOBBY:  All the cleats, all the hair, all the funky delivery. Like it’s all over pitching ninja all the time. Even sometimes it makes his way to House of Highlights and I’m just like, this guy is annoying, [1:00:03]

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Speaking of guys that are annoying, and maybe the most uncool player on my list, Alex Bregman.

ALEX:  Wow. Okay.

BOBBY:  He is not cool at all.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And he wants he wants it too much. He’s doing an impression of a cool guy. And he does a good impression.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It does good job of not breaking that kayfabe. But after like all of the signs stealing and stuff, like him trying to turn himself into the heel. It, it was very much like when LeBron went to Miami, and he tried to turn himself into like a villain. He’s like, I’m LeBron villain mode for all of 2011. I’m like, dude–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –like, you’re just a normal guy who plays a really solid third base. And I, I just don’t I, I don’t think his stick is very interesting.

ALEX:  Yeah, it feels a little, you mentioned LeBron. It feels a little like Kevin Durant asked to.

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah. See, I think Kevin Durant’s cool.

ALEX:  I mean, I think I’m, right–

BOBBY:  [1:01:01], so many times.

ALEX:  I know, yes, you have.

BOBBY:  I think he’s just a cool guy who does a lot of uncool stuff.

ALEX:  Right. But it’s like–

BOBBY:  But like when he logs on to Twitter and just ethers people are like, wait, is this the coolest guy–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –ever seen in my life.

ALEX:  Are you may be the, the best poster of all time?

BOBBY:  I think he might be drill.

ALEX:  Right. Like the fact that dude has like actual burner accounts out there. He’s that’s just hilarious to me. I know, this isn’t an NBA cool-uncool.

BOBBY:  Unbelievable. Okay, back to cool. Rapid fire through the last few.

ALEX:  You know, I think is really cool. Who does not get the shiny deserves from Yankees fans is Gleyber Torres.

BOBBY:  Hmm. Interesting.

ALEX:  I think it, it is obvious he has maybe had a, a rocky career to say the least in New York. I think has drawn the ire of a lot of Yankees fans and continues to do so especially now that Gary Sanchez is gone.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  But like when you talk about suave, like a guy who looks good out on the field, maybe you don’t have to look at results all the time. But he’s a guy–

BOBBY:  Or who don’t have to run to the bathroom if hit ground balls hit to him.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  It’s conveniently be out of the room.

ALEX:  He’s a guy who I think like, like, looks like a, like a baseball player.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he does.

ALEX:  He has maybe the best jawline in the sport. He also is a fit-God.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t know, in, in another world where he’s a good baseball player. I think he’s like a, like a he’s like a fashion icon. You know? He’s like, he’s like, bizarro world like Javier Baez.

BOBBY:  Okay. Although–

ALEX:  [1:02:44]

BOBBY:  –Javier Baez sometimes it’s not a good buyer either.

ALEX:  [1:02:46] very good this year.

BOBBY:  I thought about putting Javier Baez on here. He’s one who felt too obvious. He’s so cool.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  I like it. You convince me. He’s not good, but he is cool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s definitely not good. This is too much Yankees apologizing–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –going on here. Mike Schubert is gonna text us saying that this were his favorite Yankees podcast. Alright, let me, let me knock the Yankees fans down from there high in just a second. But I have to do an another cool guy first. That cool guy is Jose Abreu.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He’s so damn cool. He’s like dirty, his jersey is like all the way down to his ribcage.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He’s got a some of the thickest chains I’ve ever seen like a good baseball player be able to wear for long periods of time–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –while playing well still. He’s got like a dad strength energy to him. Like his, many of his home runs are just all forearms. Kind of like how Albert Pujols was–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –in his peak. Not that I’m saying that Jose Abreu was anywhere near the baseball player that Albert Pujols was but–

ALEX:  Not yet.

BOBBY:  I think is the ponytail, the bun is cool. I think the, the big lip in is cool. It’s all cool, it is, he’s cool. He’s so show. And again, that’s a phrase that we use on baseball Twitter a lot to describe someone who just looks like a big leaguer. Who has like mastered the mannerisms of looking like a big leaguer. But there’s a way to do that where it feels like you know that you’re doing the mannerisms of a big leaguer. And then there’s a way to do it where it feels like you’re, you’re like living the mannerisms. Like you were put on this earth to show people how to dip. And that’s kind of what Jose Abreu is like.

ALEX:  Well, and you mentioned earlier, right? If you’re standing next to someone cool and you look uncool, like big demerit in there.

BOBBY:  Yeah, red flag.

ALEX:  And he’s–

BOBBY:  He’s standing next to, like 20 cool people.

ALEX:  He’s hap- he’s standing next to like maybe the coolest team in baseball and manages to–

BOBBY:  Still the coolest guy, yeah, yeah.

ALEX:  All right back to uncool. Another sort of obvious one. The, the uncool ones oftentimes feel just as if not more obvious than, than the cool guys.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Noah Syndergaard. Supremely uncool!

BOBBY:  Ohh, this is such a good one. This is such a good one. It, I don’t know why he didn’t come across my mind because I think all of the time about how uncool he is.

ALEX:  Yeah, it’s like–

BOBBY:  He’s like if Jordan Peterson was 6’5″ and through 98.

ALEX:  Right. Exactly. Like, you know, is always posting–

BOBBY:  Except only throws 93 now.

ALEX:  Yeah, is washed. He’s always like posting like the books he’s reading on Instagram. And they’re like, how to, how to level up your, your mindset, you know?

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  Here’s my, here’s my, my dinner. It’s a piece of raw steak and one lettuce.

BOBBY:  Leaf.

ALEX:  One lettuce leaf.

BOBBY:  One lettuce, I’ll take one lettuce, sir.

ALEX:  He actually is Jordan Peterson. Become to think of it.

BOBBY:  He is Jordan Peterson.

ALEX:  Yeah, he’s- and like, he’s not even like corny, he’s like, I would, I would like to not have a conversation with this man. I don’t think I’d be able to make it through.

BOBBY:  Oh, man. Another New York pitcher on my uncool list. Though I know that Noah Syndergaard is an Anaheim pitcher now, which feels weirdly more accurate. Another New York pitcher who should have maybe also been an Anaheim pitcher, I don’t really know. Garrett Cole. He is not cool at all!

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  There’s nothing cool about him.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I used to think he was kind of cool.

ALEX:  Right. When he was on the Astros, it was kind of like–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –damn, this guy shoves.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Every time he goes out there.

BOBBY:  He shoves every time he goes out there. His stuff is off the charts. He really talked that much. He’s a pretty good game face. But the, the game face is completely gone now that he’s not allowed to have a beard. Now he’s just kind of looks like I keep saying this joke because it keeps being true in my brain. He looks like the Michael Myers mask, without facial hair. And I mean, talk about a way to expose yourself as supremely uncool. The whole spider tax situation–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –was just one of the least cool, cool ways to handle anything that has ever happened in–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –baseball.

ALEX:  Big I’ve never had media training in my life energy.

BOBBY:  If you’re on the Yankees, you have to really do something to overcome and, and present as cool and he does not.

ALEX:  Yep!

BOBBY:  Okay, we’re up to our final [1:07:13] category.

ALEX:  All right, I’ll just give you my my cool and uncool real quick.

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  My cool guy. Mark Canha.

BOBBY:  Nice. The aviator shades.

ALEX:  Yeah. Aviator shades, he’s a huge like foodie. He’s always posting, I mean, when he was on the A’s he was always popping around to like the hot spots in town and posting about it on his Instagram.

BOBBY:  Wow! Wow!

ALEX:  And again, like a guy who kind of like came up out of nowhere and [1:7:41]–

BOBBY:  Mark Canha guess right for the [1:07:42] 38, brother.

ALEX:  That’s right. Has no business being good at baseball. Like just looks like a, a dude.

BOBBY:  Yeah. He looks like such as like a dad who’s really into golf.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But not very good at golf.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like, yeah, he’s, I love him.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Unbelievable that he’s on the Mets.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Let’s go Mets, as they completely botch a game to the Seattle Mariners, but it’s fine.

ALEX:  My last uncool guy is a bit of a zag. Because I know he’s a bit of a favorite on this podcast. But he is extremely uncool. And that’s Nick Castellanos.

BOBBY:  Ohhhh! Okay. I thought you were gonna say my last guy too. And I was gonna be mad. Because I’m zagging as well.

ALEX:  Nice.

BOBBY:  But also zigging at the same time, you’ll see what I mean.

ALEX:  He is incredible for the content, man.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It’s partially because he’s uncool. Like he wants to be that guy, right? Who’s like exposing baseball for the, the sham that it is, right? The, the business of baseball, right? He’s, he’s vocally anti Rob Manfred. He will hand over the mic to a fan in a postgame interview, just to let that sentiment be known. And again, I hope he keeps doing what he’s doing. Because there, there are very few players like him in baseball, and, and I love it. That’s not cool. It’s not, it’s not cool.

BOBBY:  Okay, my only counterpoint would be, if you walked into a room and Nick Castellanos was in the room in street clothes, I think you would think he was cool.

ALEX:  Yeah. I think once he started talking–

BOBBY:  Yeah, you might lose the thread.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Might lose that thread. That’s fair. That might be a controversial one, we’ll see.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  The listeners will have to decide whether or not he is cooler or uncool. That’ll be the poll that I put underneath is on Spotify.

ALEX:  There you go. All right. Give me your last two.

BOBBY:  Okay, my last two are actually one, one man. He’s on both.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He’s both.

ALEX:  I feel like I know who this is.

BOBBY:  It’s Bryce Harper.

ALEX:  Hmmm. Hmmm.

BOBBY:  I, he’s like that to me when we’re talking about cooler uncool. He’s like that painting, that looks like a bunny if you look at it in one angle, and looks like a duck if you look at it in the other angle. It’s just a matter of whe- how you choose to look at it that day.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Whether or not what he’s doing is cool. Because like, okay, 485 foot home run. Backflip, yelling, hands straight up in the air. It’s pretty cool.

ALEX:  Happy Mother’s Day in into the camera after hitting a bomb.

BOBBY:  Yeah, like he is like I said earlier he’s show.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And he has been since he was like 15.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And the I black like back in the minors like getting tossed. He got tossed in a minor league game because a pitch was outside and he went and drew a line where the pitch was and the umpire ejected him. Like, it’s pretty, that stuff is all pretty cool. The obsession with like, the barber shop that we discovered on this podcast a couple years ago. The pandering to Philadelphia like the second that he got in the door by like, making his Instagram captions like #cityofBrycereallylove and shit like that. That stuff is like maybe not cool that I could be convinced that it is cool in a certain way. And I do think he’s pretty corny, and a try hard. So that’s why he occupies kind of both sides of my list. He’s like the one guy who I will allow an argument for either case based on the day or even the hour, or even the inning of the specific game that he is playing.

ALEX:  Yeah. Yeah, maybe not cool personality wise. Don’t scroll through his Instagram likes.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Which I don’t even think you can do anymore but–

BOBBY:  Not politically cool.

ALEX:  No! But like, he, but like, I know the like whole like, that’s a clown question, bro thing was, like, really play it out really quickly. But when it happened, it was fucking hilarious, right? That was like when, when Trump tweeted covfefe and, and for a moment, the whole internet, internet was united in how fucking stupid our President is, you know? And then like, he got in on the joke and it got really played out. And like liberals–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –glommed on to it. But, but when it happened, boy, that was that was a day on the internet.

BOBBY:  He’s got pretty funny, pretty good comedic timing or like life timing.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He does big things in big moments.

ALEX:  Yeah

BOBBY:   Good or bad, orr dumb or silly. Or like whatever.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I, I’m, he’s such a main character.

ALEX:  Yeah, he really is, big main character energy.

BOBBY:  Also, he won MVP last year. I don’t really feel like we’re talking about him as one of the best players in baseball anymore. His two MVPs, he’s still under 30. It’s sort of ridiculous how good he is and how much we take him for granted because he’s not been on very many good teams. Okay, that’s it, Alex. That’s everybody on the cool and uncool list. That’s not all of the cool and uncool players. Please don’t be offended if we left out your favorite cool or your least favorite uncool player.

ALEX:  Yeah, but, but let us know who it is. You can slide into our, into our DMs. You can drop us a reply on Twitter. If you’re in that Patreon slack. You can pop in there as well, where we have an episode discussion channel set up for all you Tipping Pitches heads.

BOBBY:  Still never come up with the name.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Still never came up with a name for this sport is the podcast.

ALEX:  Speaking of the Patreon.

BOBBY:  That does- speaking of the Patreon, patreon.com\tippingpitches. Three tiers $5, $7, or $12 a month. You get a bunch of good stuff at all of those tiers. At the top tier, the Alex Rodriguez VIP club. You will get a shout out, as a producer level supporter of this podcast. We are going to shout out five of those A. Rod.-tier patrons per week. This week, huge thank you goes to Alexander, Connor, Jacob, Becca, and JT. If you have questions for the podcast, but you’re not in the slack, of course, you can drop them tippingpitchespod@gmail.com, tipping_pitches on Twitter. In the DMs you can call our voicemail line 785-422-5881. It’s been a while since we’ve done a bonafide voicemail mailbag segment, but maybe we’ll do one of those soon. We’ll let you know ahead of time if we do, Alex anything else to leave the, leave the people with? Did we contemplated on what other cryptocurrencies that people could, could buy into?

ALEX:  You know, I haven’t. You want to know if he’s uncool?

BOBBY:  I’d love to know.

ALEX:  Mayor Eric Adams.

BOBBY:  Oooh. That’s so true. I forgot about this. So we should play them out with, with how uncool he is.

ALEX:  Yes, yeah.

BOBBY:  Okay, appreciate everybody listening. We’ll be back next week. Please enjoy the dulcet tones of New York City’s meme of a Mayor, Eric Adams.

[Music]

ERIC ADAMS:  But just think about it, from sitting in those seats, to sitting in the broadcast. Only in America.

Speaker 1:  Pretty cool.

Speaker 2:  Absolutely.

ERIC ADAMS:  Only in America.

Speaker 1: I know, who knows what see that planning for you?

ERIC ADAMS:  Without a doubt, only in America. Listen, this is the only country with dream is attached to about me. There’s not a German dream, there’s not a French dream, there’s not a Polish dream. This is an American dream. And that dream came to reality just by sitting in those seats.

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMay 16, 2022Posted inAudio, Episode
Leave a comment on NFTee-Ball	
2 Geneva 2 Conventions

Bobby and Alex discuss the despair among Oakland A’s fans and the torture architect making a bid for Nashville baseball, then speed through some topics from around the league, including Miguel Cabrera’s milestone, a surprise parachuting in Washington D.C., just the literally size of sponsored jersey patches, Charlie Blackmon’s gambling deal, and more.

Links:

Reds fans with bags on their heads

Songs featured in this episode:

The Coup, Lakeith Stanfield — “OYAHYTT” • PUP — “Waiting” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and, and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about? That’s amazing! That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I need a rule on something.

ALEX:  I’m ready. I have my umpiring cap on.

BOBBY:  I was hoping that you could maybe get in like a judge robe. Get a little gavel?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Could be a good bit for audio medium. [0:46]–

ALEX:  [0:47] great, great coming up at, yeah.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly. I need a ruling on whether or not I’m allowed to make this joke for the cold open?

ALEX:  Oh, is this a ban topic?

BOBBY:  It is a potentially banned topic. As you and our listeners know, we did an episode a few weeks ago at the beginning of the season where we banned topics for 2022. We said stuff that we did not want to talk about. One of those things that I banned was individual player NFT deals.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  However, does the presence of Alex Rodriguez in this NFT override the ban in 2022?

ALEX:  Does this–

BOBBY:  Because A. Rod. is like a core tenet of who we are. We are A. Rod., A. Rod. is us.

ALEX:  Right. Well, does this involve a current player as well? Because I had, I had assumed that, you know, the moratorium on NFT endorsement deals largely applies to current players. I’m not interested in talking about Alex Bregman’s NFT.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  But–

BOBBY:  Yes. So this is your ruling? You say, yes.

ALEX:  I say, I say yes. It’s fair game.

BOBBY:  Amazing. Well, I don’t even remember what the joke was gonna be. It was just going to be that A. Rod. changed his profile photo to it, NFT that looks like total shit.

ALEX:  I, I don’t really understand what it’s supposed to be of. Is it him? Wear, like wearing a, wearing a silly hat?

BOBBY:  Maybe it’s like a younger him, you know. When he was like loosey goosey wearing his hat backwards on the field, that sort of thing. Maybe it’s the backyard baseball NFT of him.

ALEX:  Right. So I can do my best to just describe it. For the listeners it appears to be what I can only assume is Alex Rodriguez.

BOBBY:  You can just name every pixel or so [2:32]–

ALEX:  [2:32]

BOBBY:  –art.

ALEX:  Okay, top left.

BOBBY:  Give it the color code, 110.

ALEX:  EEF00. Right. It’s like him in sunglasses. And it, I feel like it is maybe supposed to be a backward cat but it comes off looking more like a do rag or something like that.

BOBBY:  Think like a do rag, yes.

ALEX:  It’s also I’d like to clarify it is not the official NFT profile photo, right? It is, he has just gone in and uploaded a–

BOBBY:  A JPEG.

ALEX:  –JPEG–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –of the NFT.

BOBBY:  Do you spell JPEG with the E or without the E? Important question. Are those two different things with E, without E?

ALEX:  I should know this, I don’t know the answer to it. I usually–

BOBBY:  Why should we know this?

ALEX:  –I use–

BOBBY:  Based on what? Your journalism degree. The fact that we use HTML at our student newspaper.

ALEX:  When I’m, when I’m talking about JPEG, the format, I spell it out JPEG when I am appending it to the end of a file name I do JPG. How’s that?

BOBBY:  I just don’t understand what the difference is. It’s like how there’s two different spellings of gray.

ALEX:  Right. Do you think this is also like some bullshit like English language stuff? Like they were like, we need an E in there.

BOBBY:  Probably. Or maybe it’s like a GIF, GIF thing. It’s just an aesthetic choice.

ALEX:  So far off the rails already talking about the nuances between JPEG and JPG.

BOBBY:  I’d like to correct the record on another NFT matter.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  We’re five minutes into the podcast we haven’t–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –talked about two different NFT matters. This is number two, I would, I would like to say a quick thank you to Justin Cusan, longtime listener, for pointing out that the joke that you made last week about how, what’s the worst NFT MLB. could come up with. You made a very good joke that I laughed pretty hard at that they could come up with an NFT of the Lou, the Lou Gehrig luckiest man on earth speech. It turns out that already happened. It literally already happened, verbatim. And there’s an mlb.com article about it. So we will link to that in the description. I apologize to all of the people who come to us for just hard facts.

ALEX:  There’s a decent chance that maybe I that flashed across my timeline when that happened. And I immediately–

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  –memory hold it. And, and, and when I was you know trying to come up with ideas for NFT’s, I thought there’s no way this, this could actually be real, right? You know?

BOBBY:  Yeah, this has to be from my subconscious.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. This has–

BOBBY:  Not to be my memory.

ALEX:  –to be something in my mind mocked up.

BOBBY:  This just goes, this just proves that in the multiverses, there’s an NFT of every single MLB event out there somewhere.

ALEX:  Well, it also, I think, proves that if we’re ever going to dunk on things that MLB might do, we should probably Google whether or not they’ve already done them.

BOBBY:  I mean, you could argue that we’re just giving them free ideas.

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  Sometimes with this podcast. They certainly act like that.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Like we talk, we talk a lot of shit and then sometimes they just do that stuff. I think we should get paid for it. Okay, we are going to mine Alex’s baseball fan trauma. We are going to talk about the new ownership group in Nashville, trying to bring baseball over to Nashville. And then we’re going to do a speed round of a bunch of other topics. This one’s going to be a fun one. Before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[5:59]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Alex, it’s so nice to see you. Ready for this week’s session? Where we sit down and we talk about your your baseball trauma. Are you ready to do that on the podcast this week? How was your week?

ALEX:  My week was fine. I’m doing well.

BOBBY:  That’s great. You look, you look like you slept well, the last couple days.

ALEX:  Thank you. I, I appreciate that. I did, I’ve been I’ve been trying to sleep in.

BOBBY:  There’s a box of tissues off to the side. So if this gets emotional, feel free to reach over.

ALEX:  Thank you. I’m gonna, I’m gonna pour myself a glass of, of lemon infused water real quick. And then we can–

BOBBY:  Cucumbers in that [6:44].

ALEX:  Right, exactly. And then we can talk about, and then we can talk about how my love for the A’s, I don’t know, goes back to my parents or something like that. And, I don’t know, man.

BOBBY:  Okay, bit over, we’re not going to do therapist voice the entire time. I want to talk to you about your A’s fandom. It’s something that I’ve wanted to talk to you about since the offseason. Basically since the lockout ended, and they started trading away all of their players, although we kind of had word of this before the lockout when they let the Mets sign many of their good players. But I wanted to give you time to process what’s going on with the A’s. And then I wanted to kind of like see the first couple weeks of the season and see how it plays out with the team. How it feels to watch them with a, with a good chunk of the players from last years, the last couple years core of the A’s not there anymore. We finally reached that point. Are you ready to talk about the, the Oakland Athletics?

ALEX:  I think so. I’m gonna do my very best not to break down in the middle of it. I, what’s, what, what questions you got for me, you know?

BOBBY:  So it feels serendipitous, because I asked you while we were prepping for the podcast while you were walking over here. And we were just texting about topics. I said that are you ready to finally excavate your pain as it relates to the A’s? And you sent me a screenshot that you had written down that you were ready to talk about the A’s this week. So I’ll let you, I’ll let you guide the conversation. Obviously, for listeners who don’t follow the Athletics that closely. There’s myriad, a myriad of reasons why A’s fans, really down in the dumps these days. They’re trying to move the A’s out of Oakland, they refuse to spend money on players they’ve traded away most of their good players from the last few years. And all the while, I think I’ve just struck this incredibly disrespectful tone to the fan base. Underlined probably most often by the, the jokes that are ma- made or the comments that are made about how not a lot of as fans are showing up to the Coliseum right now. So all that being said are you feeling more or less or equally connected to the Oakland Athletics franchise as you have been in the past?

ALEX:  I think it’s easy for me to say I’m feeling far less connected to it on like an emotional level. I mean, hey, I’ve, I have the game up on the corner of my screen as we speak. So like, you know, it’s, it’s impossible to entirely emotionally divest from from a baseball team. I’m sure many listeners are familiar with that feeling, right? It’s almost like a–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –sort of Stockholm syndrome that you feel when your team kind of repeatedly spurns you.

BOBBY:  Normal sport.

ALEX:  Yep. But yeah, there’s you know, there’s been lots of stories, tweets, jokes, even about A’s attendance, which has been pretty abysmal to say the least.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Lots of, lots of four digit attendance numbers in the 2000s in the 3000s. And I mean, frankly, I don’t know why more fans wouldn’t want to show up to the, to the Chris Ellis, Cole Irvin Cy Young contender showdown against the Baltimore Orioles.

BOBBY:  I don’t know which player is on which team–

ALEX:  It’s fair. I–

BOBBY:  No, I think Cole Irvin’s on the A’s–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Is that right?

ALEX:  Yes. [10:21]–

BOBBY:  Oh my God, look at me. Look at me.

ALEX:  He’s probably going to be our, maybe our number one guy? Once, once Frankie Montas is shipped out of town. I guess, you know, my rhetorical question for the jokesters out there for the A’s ownership. Whoever is wondering what’s going on is why would, why would fans show up right now? I certainly wouldn’t. And, and I don’t begrudge anyone who does? Because again, I get that it’s that baseball can also be such a source of pure joy for some people. That, you know, if it feels like it’s all you’ve got, then it’s, it’s hard to completely remove yourself from that equation. But I think it’s hard to read this as anything other than a implicit boycott by fans, who are just fed up with how they’re being treated by ownership. Both in on field issues with fielding a competitive team full of players that have names you might have heard of before. And, and the, the, the collection of off field disgraces, I guess.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t know, I fe- like I feel, I feel less attached to them as a team than I have in, in years before. And I’m getting a lot more joy, frankly, just watching other baseball teams. It’s kind of nice to be a bit of a, you know, it’s like–

BOBBY:  Free agent.

ALEX:  –a free agent fan.

BOBBY:  Let’s go!

ALEX:  And just enjoy, enjoy baseball, it was meant to be enjoyed.

BOBBY:  Well, obviously, so often, we talked about how ownership groups behave. Generally speaking, every once in a while we’ll hone in on a team that’s behaving particularly bad. One of the interesting things about the A’s specifically, is that for all the criticism that we’ve had for them, for how they don’t spend, how they won’t push it over the top. For all of the Moneyball conversations that we’ve had the retrospectives that we’ve done, on the way that Moneyball has changed how front offices work, and how front offices serve ownership groups. I think that we’ve always kind of reserved a little bit of space, both in our brains, but also on the podcast in our discourse. For the fact that the A’s are still good, oftentimes?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And I don’t know, you can correct me if I’m wrong, but never since I’ve been following baseball this closely. Have I seen them in be this intentionally bad. And I think that speaks to a little bit of your, you know, your distachment from the team on the field and the general fan. Distachment from attending games, why there’s only 3000 people going to games. And I think that it’s in large part, because, you know, when you’re at a crossroads as a franchise, and you want a new stadium, or you need a new stadium, because your lease is going to be up. You can kind of go one of two ways, right? Like you can try to win, you can make the team exciting. And you can point to the team. And you can say, this is why we should have a new stadium. Look how good the team is, if we just had a new stadium, then everything would be great. And, you know, maybe if I said that to Dave Kaval, or said that to John Fisher, they’ll say we won 90+ games for the last five years. Why, why weren’t you saying that, during that time? And before I address that, I’ll say the other way that they could go is what they’ve done. Which is just completely punt, take a step back, and say, the reason we need a new stadium is because we don’t have the resources to keep these guys around. This is just what’s going to keep happening. Unless we get XYZ sweetheart deal, or we leave Oakland, or things change significantly for the fortunes of our franchise. I just what, what I can’t square is the way that the ownership group, the way that management has so explicitly tied the functionality of the franchise to getting a new stadium. Because it doesn’t need to be this way. Those two things are not directly linked. You didn’t need to make the team this bad, just to get your way. And I don’t really see whatever like three dimensional chess board that they are seeing in terms of how this is helping them in the future. And I think that in the interim, just a lot of fans are being dumped on because of it, yourself included. And I, I just, the sport is not in a good place when a team that clearly has the player development, and the know how to be good. Repeatedly makes the choice not to do that. Repeatedly makes the choice to trade away all of their best players, anytime they get even more than pre arbitration expensive.

ALEX:  It definitely reads to me, like an a, you know, I’m sure I’ve said this before here. But it reads to me, like an attempt to basically manufacture proof that Oakland is not a viable market for Major League Baseball, right? Because if you can say, we only have a few 1000 fans coming out to games, and we still won 80 games, 85, 90 games this year, right? We still put a competitive product on the field, no one came out to watch it. There’s your proof, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  That is, you, you go to Rob Manfred and say, look, fans still aren’t coming. Therefore, help us with our move to Las Vegas, right? That is a, a cynical reading of this and feels to me, like the only reasonable reading of this, you know what I mean? And, and it’s bullshit, because, as we’ve said, time and time again, there has never been a point in this sport. Where revenues have been divested from fan attendance, more so than right now, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Back when Charlie Finley was the owner of the A’s, right? He fancied himself as kind of the, the face of the team, right? And they were good for a period of time. And then he started making kind of similar moves, right? Because he was just as cheap as an owner can be, and started trading way players. And gutting the team, essentially and attendance plummeted, right? To the point where he was forced to sell because he needed fans in the seats, right? And while I’d love to say, maybe that’s what happens here. I think fans just simply don’t have the influence over owners that they may have 40, 50 years ago.

BOBBY:  It’s just such an a historical case that they’re trying to make, that Oakland is not a viable baseball city. Like what are we doing here, guys?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Oakland has the hugely rich baseball history. It’s like when Phil Castellini last week, was threatening to move the team and saying that would be the most financially beneficial. I guess the part that he wasn’t saying was that some city somewhere in the United States would say, we’ll give you such a sweetheart deal to come here that it will carry, carry over for years, potentially decades, the financial benefit of getting a new stadium and all of these tax breaks, and whatever you’re going to get for bringing your team here. That’s what kind of what he was alluding to. And maybe that market would be slightly bigger. So then your revenues would also be slightly better, whatever. I wonder who can look these people like these owners and management in the face and say you’re just lying. You’re just lying to these people. It’s Oakland is a perfectly viable baseball market. You know, I know how because it has been for decades and decades and decades. And every time I go to a baseball stadium, I see someone wearing an A’s jersey. No matter if it’s Mets-Marlins or Yankees-Blue Jays. There is someone, some guy wearing an A’s jersey, which means there’s something real there. I wanted to ask you this, though. Do you think this is obviously anecdotal? We don’t have like some large data set or survey to prove this. But do you think that the attendance numbers and your estimation as a lifelong A’s fan, Oakland resident. Do you think the, the attendance numbers are so low? Like how would you, how would you divvy that pie chart of why they’re so low? Between trading away players, threatening to leave the Coliseum. Maybe not being the most functional place to see a ballpark these days. Whatever else you think is the reason, I guess put those things in order of what is causing so few fans to come. Because it is, it is kind of ridiculously low attendance numbers like almost unfathomably low.

ALEX:  Yeah, they’re they’re averaging around 7,400 fans a game. Which is and that’s roughly half of what the next highest team is.

BOBBY:  Yeah. It’s really bad.

ALEX:  Miami at around 14,000. I will say that I think state of the Coliseum itself is probably the lowest thing on that list. That is probably the smallest piece of the pie chart, right? The Coliseum has been in not great shape for, for years now, but fans have been still showing out.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  Despite, you know, urinal troughs in, in, in the men’s bathroom, right? Like, like shits not great.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But if you’re there to see a baseball game, it’s a, it’s a fun experience. And I would dare to say it’s a very fun experience. I think there’s, there are very few experiences like it to see a, a baseball game there. I think that the fact that they raised season ticket prices.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And–

BOBBY:  That’s the one thing I forgot to mention.

ALEX:  –and, and have played around with and gotten rid of these kind of flexible ticket packages that brought a lot of people to stadiums, effectively, they got rid of that sort of thing. And doubled season ticket prices really just, really does not help. That’s a way to alienate, not only like the casual baseball fan, but the, the diehard baseball fan, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah, it’s a bit of a perfect storm.

ALEX:  It, it, it really is.

BOBBY:  Or an imperfect storm.

ALEX:  So I think that’s a huge chunk of it as well. I, I, I almost feel like the, the discussion on the threats about relocation is probably not having as big of an impact as maybe one would think. Like I think it has more to do with the intentional dismantling of the team of its stars. That feels like the biggest factor to me. Because if you’re a casual fan, you may not be following the a search for new stadium too closely, anyway. And, and I know that I’ll say like if I was living in Oakland right now. And there were rumors about the A’s moving swirling around, I would actually probably make it my mission to go and see as many A’s games as I can while I still could, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah. Don’t let John Fisher here you said that.

ALEX:  Geesh! I know. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, I’m gonna be in the Bay Area this summer. And am I gonna go to an A’s game? I haven’t made up my mind yet. There’s a good–

BOBBY:  Oh, come on, you have to go! What if they leave? Then you will have seen your last A’s game in Oakland?

ALEX:  Damn. You know what?

BOBBY:  This really is an excavation now.

ALEX:  I really am, I’m kind of like the, the note that you alluded to. I was watching the, the A’s-Rangers game on–

BOBBY:  Already dark.

ALEX:  –on Apple TV+ the other night.

BOBBY:  It’s getting darker.

ALEX:  I know. Right. And, and again, attendance was abysmal and the team was not doing well. And I, and I wrote down something akin to watching the A’s fucking sucks right now and I really hope fans fucking boycott lol. That was just kind of my, my–

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  –my thoughts on the whole situation. So like, yes would it pained me to not go to an Oakland A’s baseball game again? Of course! Would it pained me to see them leave to Las Vegas? Yeah, that would, it would really hurt to see so many loyal fans done dirty like that. But like, I don’t know, what else, what else you’re gonna do? Just, just keep showing up, just keep lining John Fisher’s pockets?

BOBBY:  Yeah, really stuck between a rock and a hard place. Getting the A’s leaving feels like, you know, getting, getting left by your fiance at the altar kind of. Well like it’s definitely going to hurt in the moment but then it’s also just going to hurt every year after that on the day that you remember that you got left at the altar? Yeah. Every time like you see a picture of yourself at the coliseum or you see a picture of yourself with your fiance. Like it’s just gonna be one of those things that has a really long tail.

ALEX:  Yeah, even, even when I have, have found my, my new fiance, right? I’ll be going through that, that old–

BOBBY:  Nice!

ALEX:  –that old, right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Exactly, right.

ALEX:  I’ll be going through that–

BOBBY:  On heavy new marriage.

ALEX:  –boxers photos in my closet. And I’ll see the one of me standing against the wall at FanFest in like 2005–

BOBBY:  [24:31]

ALEX:  –in my wonders jersey.

BOBBY:  Is that marriage going to be better than my new one? You’ll always have to wonder that.

ALEX:  Yeah, I know.

BOBBY:  All right, we’ve ver- we’ve strained that metaphor very far, very far, that one’s on me. Anything else to say about the A’s? Because we got to talk about Nashville. You have done some, some oppo research into the Nashville ownership group that I want to hear about. But I want to give you one last chance. You know, Alex as we come to the end of our hour here. You’ve used all of my tissues, drink all the lemon water. It’s getting a little stuffy in here. Anything else you’d like to get off your chest before a session next week?

ALEX:  Are there any medications you can prescribe me that would help with this?

BOBBY:  I’m just a therapist. I’m not having the ability to prescribe medications.

ALEX:  Oh, right. You’re the person that actually helps you don’t just charge me 175 a half hour to say, yep, still need them.

BOBBY:  There you go! Rip it off and hand it over. I can prescribe you something, it’s called Steve Cohen. Baby.

ALEX:  Yeah. Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Let’s go Mets! I’ll give you the Mets-pilled prescription.

ALEX:  I’m a, I’m Mets-pilled.

BOBBY:  Let’s go!

ALEX:  I’m, I’m all in, baby.

BOBBY:  Okay, let’s talk about Nashville.

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  You asked me if I had seen anything about the ownership group that has been put together for the potential Nashville expansion team. And I told you no. And you said, you really wanted to talk about it, because it’s an interesting collection of characters. Would you like to elucidate on that some more?

ALEX:  I do. So I, you know, I want to give a little bit of context first. Because I think it’s an interesting–

BOBBY:  Because you’re a good journalist.

ALEX:  –adventure, because I’m a good journalist as well. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Letting both sides have their moment.

ALEX:  There was, there was news that broke this past week that Dave Stewart would be joining the venture to expand baseball to Nashville, right? It’s, it is called the, the Music City baseball group. And you may have, you may have heard that one Justin Timberlake is involved with it.

BOBBY:  I have heard that, right here on this podcast.

ALEX:  Yep. one Dave Dombrowski, one Tony La Russa even.

BOBBY:  I still don’t understand how Dave Dombrowski is still allowed to be involved in it while being the Phillies GM.

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  He’s a man who is the Phillies, sorry President of baseball operations. Let me show him some respect.

ALEX:  Yeah, I don’t know if he’s still, still on board there that may have been in a past life of his. Although, although maybe not, you know, we’ve baseball is no stranger to conflicts of interest.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  All that to say they announced that Dave Stewart will be joining the venture as they seek to basically diversify their ownership initiative. He, he said in a, in a statement, the time has come for black ownership in Major League Baseball. Now more than ever, we need to change the dynamics and unlock access to ownership for minorities. The, the team that they are advocating to create would be called the national stars. Which is, which is a nod to the, the Negro League teams that played Nashville in the 40s and 50s. And I think Nashville would be a great place for baseball.

BOBBY:  I agree.

ALEX:  I’m, I’m excited about this, Manfred has said that it’s not going to happen until the A’s and Rays stadium situations are settled.

BOBBY:  Still waiting on that Rays 2 city plan–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –to come through. Haven’t given up hope.

ALEX:  But I think it’s cool. I think Nashville would be a great place for baseball. And I–

BOBBY:  I think there’s not enough baseball in the south. None a profesional baseball–

ALEX:  Yes!

BOBBY:  –teams in the south.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  There’s an open, huge over representation on the West Coast and the Northeast.

ALEX:  Absolutely.

BOBBY:  ‘m not counting Florida because Florida is different than the South Florida’s Florida.

ALEX:  Yeah. However, Dave Stewart is, is not the chairman of this initiative. Would you like to know who that, who that title belongs to?

BOBBY:  I would love to know. And I think that the listeners would like to know as well.

ALEX:  That is one former US Attorney General.

BOBBY:  Oh, what a resume.

ALEX:  Alberto Gonzales.

BOBBY:  Tell me more about Mr. Gonzales, Alex.

ALEX:  Of course. He has a, he has a storied legacy, in a, in America, in American politics. How does Architect of President Bush’s policies on torture and surveillance of the American people sound to you?

BOBBY:  It sounds like Rob Manfred is rushing that one straight through. Let’s get it done.

ALEX:  Yes. Yeah, he’s no A. Rod. But you know, he’ll do.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he was worried about Steve Cohen’s tweets. I mean, come on.

ALEX:  I know. Alberto Gonzales is beyond canceling, you know. He’s, he’s–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –uncancellable.

BOBBY:  He’s like Dick Cheney.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Real quick, I want to do a rundown of some of Gonzales’ resume highlights, shall we?

BOBBY:  Okay. Okay. Well, before you do that–

ALEX:  Oh, okay.

BOBBY:  –can I just quickly say that maybe this is because, you know, Jerry Reinsdorf always wanted to share a room with, with Henry Kissinger like in the 80s. This is sort of like a Tony La Russa thing like, you want to get him back because he made the mistake way back when?

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  So now we’re gonna get like the modern Henry Kissinger, in the ownership room.

ALEX:  Oh my goodness. This is the content that this would create for us. I’m sorry for my sport in American democracy, but–

BOBBY:  Alex is the Darren Rovell of this podcast. I’m always saying this.

ALEX:  Let’s see, in 2001, he was, he was White House Counsel? One of Bush’s most trusted advisors. Helped, helped write a little thing, he, he wrote a thing–

BOBBY:  The old Patriot Act?

ALEX:  –called the old Patriot Act.

BOBBY:  Wow. Straight from the pen of Mr. Gonzales.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Well, imagine this guy with a CBA. Tends to negotiate the CBA.

ALEX:  Jesus.

BOBBY:  Come on!

ALEX:  Let’s see in 2003, there was a, there was a scandal involving US military personnel at Abu Ghraib in Iraq. And, and he was, he, he came out under some criticism for calling the, the Geneva Conventions. I don’t know if you’ve heard of them?

BOBBY:  Yeah, I’m aware of they’re.

ALEX:  Obsolete?

BOBBY:  Obsolete.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. They don’t, they just don’t matter here.

BOBBY:  On the one hand, very heinous. On the other hand, kind of a take, you know. Like, that’s very tacky way to say that.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  The Geneve Conventions had their time?

ALEX:  Yeah, we’re in a new era–

BOBBY:  They passed their prime.

ALEX:  -now, baby.

BOBBY:  That’s the old guard. Okay, we’re backflip on our way past the Geneva Convention

ALEX:  Yeah, he was like, get ready for 2 Geneva 2 Conventions.

BOBBY:  Okay, anything else?

ALEX:  Let’s see, he, he did sign off on a legal memo that, that narrowed the definition of torture. Which was bad enough that the Bush administration actually later rescinded it. Can you imagine if George Bush’s like, bro you got to you got to tone down the torture a little bit.

BOBBY:  This just plays into George Bush’s like lovable idiot—

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  — like persona? Where he was just like, oh, I wasn’t doing anything. I was just the guy that you wanted to get the beer with. It was all Dick Cheney.

ALEX:  And Alberto Gonzales–

BOBBY:  Alberto Gonzales.

ALEX:  –Karl Rove. Funnily enough, these when, none of these were really the reasons that he had to step down from US Attorney General. He only held the title for a couple years. And–

BOBBY:  Wow! Prolific, he was–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –prolific.

ALEX:  He was, yeah. Well, some of the, some of the stuff actually came when he was just a quote, “advisor”.

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah!

ALEX:  Just counsel.

BOBBY:  That’s when you can get the, get the most done.

ALEX:  You really, you really can’t know over said that–

BOBBY:  It’s like a roving hitting instructor. You’re not just like at the big league level–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –can make the most change across the organization.

ALEX:  Yeah. He, it was alleged that he dismissed seven federal prosecutors for political motivations. And a, and a year later after coming under scrutiny from–

BOBBY:  I thought you could just do that.

ALEX:  I know, right? That’s like–

BOBBY:  That’s the thing that took him down?

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  Man.

ALEX:  This is like, they just do that today.

BOBBY:  Yeah, and they say it. Trump looks like tweets about it.

ALEX:  Exactly. We need more people on our side in the courts.

BOBBY:  Wild times that we live in. This is the guy? So wait, so he would be the control person? He would be the main financial element, what would he bring to the table?

ALEX:  I mean, it’s unclear. I didn’t think torture, was that profitable, that you could become a billionaire. I mean, I maybe.

BOBBY:  I think that once you’re out of the government, it becomes really profitable.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like, you’re like a private black site contract adviser? That seems to be where the real money is.

ALEX:  Right. Right, so I don’t think he’s the, the money man. My guess that probably goes to, I believe his name is John Laur? Who was part of act–

BOBBY:  [33:43] like build nuclear weapons or something?

ALEX:  Real Estate Development, so, almost. I guess he was–

BOBBY:  More than the other.

ALEX:  –he was involved in investment groups. For a couple other MLB franchises, and the sa- and the sale of the Seattle Seahawks. So he’s, so he’s, he’s not new to this, right? But–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –but Gonzales brings the, the legal expertise–

BOBBY:  And no [34:08]

ALEX:  –right? Right. The, the gravitas that it takes to–

BOBBY:  He’s gonna make the tough decisions.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  I think this is the most Tipping Pitches segment of all time.

ALEX:  It, it really is. I–

BOBBY:  Reading a list of war crimes and relating it back to baseball somehow. Like this is just to, they’re making it kind of to easy.

ALEX:  They forced our hand.

BOBBY:  Yeah, they did, they did. This is despicable. I can’t believe that there’s nobody shepherding the sport away from literal war criminals. Or like, oil barons, or whatever.

ALEX:  Well–

BOBBY:  Financial criminals.

ALEX:  Okay, who’s gonna run the teams then at this point? You’re running out of people.

BOBBY:  That’s actually true.

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  Like, landlords and oil barons and war criminals and what’s next? What’s next?

ALEX:  I mean, the next person to, to buy a team is going to be some, like dipshit who made money off Dogecoin.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Okay, but before that maybe like a sitting US senator.

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  It’s just like writing the bills on one hand and on the other hand, he’s like signing player contracts. We’ve weirdly passed a law that says baseball players have to donate all of their money back to one of the two political parties. All of it, they play for free.

ALEX:  They do. Well–

BOBBY:  We provide the military barrack housing, three square meals a day.

ALEX:  We’re bringing it back to company town, baby! You know, in, in some minor league organizations, we’re inching towards that, right? With company provided housing, which again, I’m in favor of, but to a point to a point I’m mostly in favor of just paying the players enough to be able to get their own housing.

BOBBY:  I mean, choosing where to live, having free will in society, you’re in favor of that.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, again to a point.

BOBBY:  I, I would like somebody to write the, the Boots Riley sorry to bother you. alternate future version of MLB. Where we just satirize owners and baseball players get turned into horses? I don’t, I don’t really know. Sorry for the spoiler. If you haven’t seen, sorry to bother you.

ALEX:  Who do we get to play Bizarro World, Rob Manfred. Who? But like Bob Odenkirk?

BOBBY:  That’s good. Sign me up.

ALEX:  Yeah?

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  On board?

BOBBY:  He’s got the right tone. We can cast this out later.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’d be for the Patreon content. We cast fake movies on the Patreon, sign up now. Okay, let’s take a quick break. And then when we come back, we’re going to do a speed round of a bunch of topics.

[36:52]

[Transition]

BOBBY:  Okay, speed round, pass or play? Take or Swing. That’s what I’m calling this. You decide whether we talk about this, Alex, okay? Are you alright with that?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I have a list of topics here. And you’re either gonna take it, you’re just gonna let it go by or you’re gonna you’re gonna rip swing it at it. Sounds good.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Miguel Cabrera 3000 hits. Would you like to take a swing at that one?

ALEX:  Yeah. He’s one of the best baseball players I’ve ever seen. That’s, that’s the swing right there. I took that the other way of just like he did is, is 3000 hit.

BOBBY:  G.O.A.T.

ALEX:  I, is, is somewhat unceremonious decline, largely due to injury. I think has maybe overshadowed in my mind just how good of a pure hitter he was. Like one of the best pure hitters of this generation, right? First ballot Hall of Famer, no doubt.

BOBBY:  Yeah, one of seven players to ever have 3000 hits and 500 homeruns.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s seven, seven. Like one more than six, one less than eight, seven in the history of–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –baseball.

ALEX:  Yeah. Yeah, well, I don’t even know, what more can you say? He’s also I think one of the most beloved players in the game right now. And that really is what matters the most to me.

BOBBY:  He’s had, he’s had a weird career. Obviously, he was like, exceptional when he was young right away. He’s been part of like a, a lot of like, kind of iconic teams in our lifetime. Like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –’03 Marlins, but then all of those Tigers teams around the turn of the 2010, 2010s. And I feel like he’s done the opposite of what Adrian Beltre did, where Adrian Beltre is back half of his career made him Hall of Famer.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And Miggy, you know, like a lot of other guys like Pujols , like, basically anybody that people complain about their big contracts. Had just one of the most exceptional first 10 years of his career and the second 10 years have been. Been a little bit tougher to watch, but, but he’s unbelievably beloved by Detroit fans.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Rightfully so, I was at a, a gathering, a birthday party in the park yesterday. And I met someone who was a Tigers fan. And she was like, almost in tears talking about Miggy get his 3000 hit. I’m like, where, it’s a good thing like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –you know, congratulations. Like she did it. I was like, this is amazing. All right. Next topic, Take or Swing, Aaron Boone intentionally walks [39:50] around 2999 hits.

ALEX:  Yeah, I’m gonna, I’m gonna take that pitch. I’m gonna let that one go, go right by.

BOBBY:  Good waste, good waste. Okay, next topic, the United States Capitol evacuated because the army was skydiving into Nats park–

ALEX:  That’s right.

BOBBY:  –before a game. Someone missed an email.

ALEX:  Can you imagine if they like shot down one of those parachuters?

BOBBY:  I can’t, I can’t imagine that. No.

ALEX:  Like–

BOBBY:  It literally does not compute in my brain. First of all, okay, here’s my swing at this topic. Why are we doing it? Why? Why before a baseball game, where we have one guy holding a stick, and one guy throwing a ball and everyone wearing pajamas. Why do we need Army Rangers jumping out of planes onto the field before the game starts?

ALEX:  Because the small man fall from sky and everybody applaud and fun. That’s, I don’t know, a lot of these pregame rituals are, like they, they feel of a different era, almost, right? Like it the–

BOBBY:  Yeah, it’s like, it’s like, World War II happened and we never got over it. Like, what, we don’t need more pride. We need less pride, maybe?

ALEX:  Yeah, again, I, I mean, I’m also, I’d also love to see the, the invoice for this, you know. Like, how much did this cost of the American taxpayers, right? Like military flyovers a games, or like, like cost so much money–

BOBBY:  Millions of dollars.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Which again, I don’t that seems like a racket, but I don’t decide these things. All right, next topic. Charlie Blackmon signs with MaximBet. Would you like to swing at this topic? Or would you like to take this topic?

ALEX:  I’m going to, I’m going to do a check swing and say I’m sure nothing bad will come of this.

BOBBY:  I’ll take a swing at this topic. I don’t know what MaximBet is, never heard of it. I feel like we’ve talked a lot about betting. And I’ve gotten a lot of targeted ads about sports betting on account of the fact that I like sports and tweet about sports and go to sports events, often. I know about FanDuel, I know about DraftKings. MaximBet was a new one.

ALEX:  Well, you know what now, right? You’ve just said his name like three times in the past minute.

BOBBY:  No free ads. I’m gonna go back and bleep all of them. All right, I can see the headline right now. Blackmon, the new Black Sox.

ALEX:  Wow.

BOBBY:  Write itself, huh?

ALEX:  Yes. It really does. New York Post, where you at?

BOBBY:  I’m available for freelance headline wrting. Next topic, Yankees fans throwing trash onto the field after Gleyber Torres’ walk off.

ALEX:  Nope. Hard take. That’s a, that’s a curveball in the dirt. I’m not touching that one.

BOBBY:  Absolutely. Hit the take sign on that one for me. Michael Conforto just, just taking the pass on 2022 just not gonna be playing baseball this year. Would you like to, you like to hack it that one, Alex?

ALEX:  That one feels like it’s on the edge of the zone. So I think I might take it but I know that you have a little bit more plate coverage than I. So I might–

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  –I might throw it over to you.

BOBBY:  I have no plate coverage at all, real baseball, but it’s this one is in my wheelhouse. It’s kind of fishy, it’s weird. I’m not trying to be conspiracy Bob or anything. But uhm, he’s been a good baseball player for most of his career. Much worse baseball players are signed for more money than I think he would accept over the next two years to–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –do a prove it deal. I don’t know that for certain. I’m not Scott Boras. I’m not Michael Conforto. But I think it’s weird that a guy who had one bad year and has also been prominently involved in the Major League Baseball Players Association and is represented by a prominent sports agent is not being signed for an entire season. Just because he has a bad shoulder. That is what I think is weird.

ALEX:  Speak on it.

BOBBY:  Next topic, the Padres Jersey patches are so fucking big, Alex!

ALEX:  Oh, God! Oh–

BOBBY:  Would you like to swing at this one?

ALEX:  –my God, Jesus! Hanging slider right there. They are monstrously big. And, and here’s my actual feelings about this. I largely don’t care.

BOBBY:  Thank you for sharing your actual feelings. Are you sometimes sharing your fake feelings?

ALEX:  Well, you know, I think you, sometimes you get swept up in the, in the conversation that takes place on, on Twitter.

BOBBY:  Right, Twitter is not real life.

ALEX:  Twitter is not real life.

BOBBY:  Oh, so these are you’re off Twitter feel- your offline feelings?

ALEX:  Right, exactly. The, the things that maybe I didn’t feel confident enough to, to throw on the timeline, right? It’s that, that I mostly–

BOBBY:  Thank you based Motorola.

ALEX:  Like the jersey patches are here, and they’re fine. And I’ve accepted them. And I don’t even think that this looks particularly atrocious. They managed to make a, a patch that fits with the Padres color scheme. They’re just like 30% too big, 50% too big. That’s the worst thing about it for me. And Motorola isn’t even the most egregious jersey sponsor that we’re going to get this season.

BOBBY:  Oh my God.

ALEX:  So I’m–

BOBBY:  So I’ll say–

ALEX:  –I’m waiting for the, alright sorry.

BOBBY:  –they rolled them out–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –ahead of time, so people can get used to them.

ALEX:  I’m, I’m reserving my anger for the–

BOBBY:  I like it.

ALEX:  –much more atrocious one [45:55].

BOBBY:  Keep your powder dry. That’s a good, a good strat.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I’m gonna, I’m gonna not keep my powder dry here. I was not offended by this concept. I was like, you know what jersey patches? Whatever. I’ve been watching the NBA a long time. They’ve had jersey patches since like 2016. And it doesn’t, it doesn’t bother me. It doesn’t bother me that when Steph Curry is hitting amazing shots, it says, Rakuten right above his heart. I don’t really care.

ALEX:  Yeah. They’re pretty tastefully sized in the NBA, you could say.

BOBBY:  Exactly, right. They are distastefully sized on this Padres jersey. I can only hope that the ridicule online makes them shrink it just a little bit. You know what? I think shouldn’t be an option making your jersey sponsor bigger than like a memorial patch for someone who is important to your organization who died. It should at least be the same size as that and probably smaller.

ALEX:  Yeah, but what are you going to sell off those memorial patches, dude.

BOBBY:  I don’t know, like, funeral services? Listen, we’re rolling out war criminals to own teams. Like it’s not beyond the pale.

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  Okay, next topic. This next topic is whether or not Yankees players are actually [47:08] if they’re just saying they are. Don’t even answer that. Just take that pitch, just take–

ALEX:  Yeah, this, no, no, no.

BOBBY:  Give me the takes on that one. All right, final topic. There were some Reds fans who attended the game this past week, with some bags on their head. You know, as a shame sports fans have been doing time immemorial. On those bags, it said sell the team, Bob. They’re being interviewed by a local TV station. Because you know, they’re doing a little while protest in the stands there. Here’s how that interview went.

REDS FAN:  You know, I’ve always been a huge Reds fan. I love baseball and you know, I just want the team to want to win. So you know, we figured we come out support the players, but do anything in our power to not support the ownership group.

ATTENDANT:  We never bagged on your head. You got to take them off.

BOBBY:  That voice at the end saying, you can’t have the bags on your head, you got to take them off. That was a Red stadium attendant coming over and forcing the fans to take the bags off of their head. Presumably because you’re not allowed to wear like masks or costumes at baseball games. That’s like–

ALEX:  Is that true?

BOBBY:  I think so. I think that’s true.

ALEX:  Unless you’re employed by the team.

BOBBY:  Right. Unless you’re Mr. Red, don’t want to distract from Mr. Red. But probably just because they didn’t want the bad look. Which this obviously it looks worse.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Would you like to swing it this topic that I’ve already swung at, basically?

ALEX:  I you kind of set it all, right? These fans open invite to come on this podcast.

BOBBY:  That’s exactly right.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s exactly right.

ALEX:  This is, we need more direct action like this from fans. So you know, maybe I do go to the Oakland Coliseum when I’m back home.

BOBBY:  With a bag over your head?

ALEX:  But–

BOBBY:  I would do that with you.

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  I would show up to the Coliseum with a bag over my head.

ALEX:  Hell yeah.

BOBBY:  Sell the team John, sell the team.

ALEX:  Delete your account Dave.

BOBBY:  Actually, though, that feels like something that John Fisher should be telling Dave.

ALEX:  Yes, seriously–

BOBBY:  Atleast [49:13] know.

ALEX:  –stop eating dude.

BOBBY:  Although I think that they’re just treating Dave Kaval the way that the owners treat Rob Manfred. Which is like let this guy make an idiot out of himself and we’ll pay him to do so. And then we’ll just discard him–

ALEX:  We’ll dispose of him once his job–

BOBBY:  –when curating is so low, that he’s not actually helping us anymore. That’s all for my, for my speed round topics. How do you think that segment went? Real time, evaluation.

ALEX:  I think it went well. I think we should, I think we should take every Yankees topic that comes up on this podcast. I’m gonna, I’m gonna–

BOBBY:  Why are you spoiling the bid? Like we’re just gonna do it and see who noticed. Come on! You’re ruining the bid, Alex.

ALEX:  You’re right. I’m sorry. There was no bias in that discussion.

BOBBY:  Very fair. Very honest.

ALEX:  We just talked the, the issues that matter to the American people.

BOBBY:  And to the Tipping Pitches listeners. Who are, as you know, very representative of the American people. It’s very wide array of people that we attract with this niche leftist Baseball Podcast. I think that does it for this week.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Tight one.

ALEX:  It was a tight one.

BOBBY:  In and out with it. I will use this, this time that we have here left at the end of the podcast to remind people, the Tipping Pitches is launching a Patreon. It is really happening. The Patreon is created, yet not launched. Because we are waiting for the beginning of May. Not just because of Mayday, Alex, but because the way that Patreon billing works that you just get billed right when you sign up. And we don’t want people to have to pay for a whole month and then have to re up on the first of the month. Just mere days later. So–

ALEX:  We, we also couldn’t let Joe West have all that shine on his own. So May 2nd, you’re gonna have two choices on what to sign up for.

BOBBY:  Is that the day that his podcast launches–

ALEX:  I think so.

BOBBY:  –May 2nd?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I don’t even remember I, I said on the podcast last week. But, wow, we’re trying to cut Joe West’s podcast operation off right at the head.

ALEX:  This is, this is where y’all gotta pick sides, man. Where your loyalties lie.

BOBBY:  I feel like his podcast is free, though.

ALEX:  Yeah, fair.

BOBBY:  It’s just a matter of how you spend your time, you know? Would you like to share more details on the Patreon with people Alex?

ALEX:  Of course, there will be three tiers that you can sign up for each with varying levels of rewards. The first tier is, is more Thank You Tier, that’s if you like what we’ve been doing. And want to, and just feel like supporting us. It will also get you access to a, a private Slack channel that we’ve affectionately called Slacking Pitches?

BOBBY:  It’s pretty good. No notes.

ALEX:  Yeah, that was all you buddy.

BOBBY:  Did I come up with that?

ALEX:  I think so.

BOBBY:  I believe it. Okay, sounds like something I would say.

ALEX:  Anyway, if you want to join that community of Tipping Pitches fans, will be in there. Other listeners will be in there, you can talk all your Joe West shit you want right there with us. The tier above that will get you access to more Tipping Pitches content. Things like extended interviews, and the, the opportunity to maybe even have a say in some upcoming T-shirts, of which there are a few.

BOBBY:  That’s a big perk because that’s basically all anybody DMs us these days.

ALEX:  Pretty much.

BOBBY:  Lik,e hey, when’s the Rays Unionize the Minor shirt coming down? Hey, make the Yankees Unionize the Minor shirt.

ALEX:  Right. Of course, we will never make any of these because they bear no resemblance to actual major league teams.

BOBBY:  That’s exactly–

ALEX:  Want to clarify that.

BOBBY:  –that’s exactly right. But if you would like a Rays or a Yankees or name a team inspired Unionize the Minors shirt. You’re just gonna have to sign up for at least that middle tier and vote. I just don’t know what else to tell you. Because I’ll tell you one thing, we’re not just making the Yankees one for free.

ALEX:  So true.

BOBBY:  Especially based on that last segment that we did.

ALEX:  Yeah. I’m gonna–

BOBBY:  [53:08]–

ALEX:  [53:09] all the way on that one.

BOBBY:  Take, take, take.

ALEX:  The top tier will actually feature writing of ours. Maybe a little while Tipping Pitches newsletter. We used to do that, every once in a while.

BOBBY:  So much time in MailChimp. Makes me shudder to think about MailChimp.

ALEX:  We’re, we’re bringing back our writing chops. That will also be a chance to, to maybe chat with us live. We’ll even maybe send you a little handwritten written something. All of this–

BOBBY:  It’ll be a love letter.

ALEX:  And it will be a, a love letter.

BOBBY:  We’ll write your custom love met- letter.

ALEX:  Honestly, if you want it, I’ll fucking do it, seriously. No joke. All of this and more, you’ll be able to find the full details when we officially launch a week from today. So keep your eyes peeled.

BOBBY:  I think that does it, Alex. It’s time to go watch the Mets probably blow another lead to the Diamondbacks. Thanks for listening everyone.

[54:04]

[Music]

[54:19]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez. Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodApril 25, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:john fisher, mlb stadium attendance, oakland athletics, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches
Leave a comment on 2 Geneva 2 Conventions	
Where Ya Gonna Go?

Alex and Bobby rejoice over news of Cowboy Joe West’s new podcast, then pick apart Phil Castellini’s comments to disgruntled Reds fans, the Pirates’ apparent lack of financial woes, and Dave Kaval’s bold claims about the future payroll of the Oakland A’s, wrapping it up with some ideas for some new NFTs for MLB’s most shining moments.

Links:

Phil Castellini’s comments on 700WLW 

Phil Castellini doubles down 

The Pirates’ payroll is covered by gate receipts 

Dave Kaval says the A’s just need a new stadium to start spending 

Shakeia Taylor on how MLB can actually honor Jackie Robinson’s legacy 

Songs featured in this episode:

Pet Shop Boys — “Opportunities (Let’s Make Lots of Money)” • Bright Eyes — “Devil Town” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and, and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about? That’s amazing! That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex started on May 2, we have some competition. The Tipping Pitches Podcasts has a new competitor coming into the world of baseball media.

ALEX:  Oh my God.

BOBBY:  Are you, are you aware of this breaking news?

ALEX:  I don’t think so.

BOBBY:  It broke much earlier today. But at last, you have told me you are off Twitter for today, which is great. Off work and off Twitter, living a healthy life.

ALEX:  What do I have to prepare myself for?

BOBBY:  I’m just going to read you the quote from the press release first.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  “I hope the audience will find my experiences and the people I crossed paths with over the last 44 years, interesting as I have. I’m looking forward to sharing my stories and talking with old friends about the game that we love.” Alex, that is from the press release for 5460: The Joe West Podcast.

ALEX:  What?!

BOBBY:  Beginning on May 2.

ALEX:  What?!

BOBBY:  I can’t believe you didn’t see this.

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  Wow. You should stay off Twitter more often, it is good for the podcast.

ALEX:  It is good for the podcast, right? You can break this to me.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly.

ALEX:  Wow!

BOBBY:  The Joe West Podcast, Alex. Can you think of anybody better to give a podcast to?

ALEX:  I mean, I thought this was a new like [1:35].

BOBBY:  Oh.

ALEX:  You know?

BOBBY:  No, he’s already done that, like five or six times.

ALEX:  Right, right. And I was gonna say, I think we’ve got this, we have his market down already.

BOBBY:  No, this is, this is groundbreaking. This is new, this is disruption.

ALEX:  This was probably the most logical pivot for him, right? I mean, I, maybe, I would have–

BOBBY:  Yes?

ALEX:  –put money on getting back into the studio, but I guess he’s there in a different way, right?

BOBBY:  I can tell it’s like the TV studio- oh and like then I realized you were talking about the–

ALEX:  Recording studio.

BOBBY:  –recording studio. Yeah. Uhm, I mean, I guess, I saw a lot of people making the joke that they give microphones to the umpires now and Joe West feels left out. So he just [2:14] and gets a podcast. Do you think this podcast is going to be, be good? Do you think it’s going to be a good podcast?

ALEX:  So you said it’s the 5460 podcasts?

BOBBY:  I don’t really understand why those are the numbers but that is what it’s called.

ALEX:  Okay. Has he given any context as to the content of–

BOBBY:  Oh!

ALEX:  –the show, any first guest?

BOBBY:  Oh, here I’ve read further down in the press release. That’s how many games that he umpired in his career, 5,460

ALEX:  Gotcha!

BOBBY:  That feels like it doesn’t need to be in the title of the podcast.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  As a, as a Podcast Producer, just given a little free note from my man, Joe.

ALEX:  So are there any like guests that he’s teasing? Is it just him shooting the shit with other umpires?

BOBBY:  KMOX is Mike Clairborne, currently in his 16th year on the Cardinals radio broadcast will host the show with West. That’s all we know.

ALEX:  I mean, that feels like the perfect recipe, right? It’s just give–

BOBBY:  Cardinals and Joe West.

ALEX:  I wasn’t even going that route. I was just, just give him a mic and let him do his thing, right? Like you don’t–

BOBBY:  Sure!

ALEX:  –don’t box the guy in.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Just the play by play. Just keep it moving.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  Let him be the color. level with me right now. Would you co host this podcast with Joe West? Don’t not leave me, don’t leave me. But you just do this and the other free time that you have?

ALEX:  Is this, is this a weekly venture?

BOBBY:  I don’t know.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  That’s not a very good press release. I don’t know a ton about the podcast.

ALEX:  I think it might be a fun bit for a little while. I think you would probably start to get sick of my shit after a few episodes.

BOBBY:  He would get sick of your shit.

ALEX:  Well, because–

BOBBY:  Right. I don’t think that Joe West is going to do bits.

ALEX:  Right. And like it’s–

BOBBY:  That’s kind of what we do.

ALEX:  And it’s his show, right? So like you kind of have to cater to him. So if you’re just sitting there snickering as he talks about the, the 2951st–

BOBBY:  Game that he umpired.

ALEX:  –game that he umpired.

BOBBY:  Right, he was at first for that one.

ALEX:  He was yeah. I’d, I’d respect it if it was like a rundown of every game he’s done.

BOBBY:  Just to recap pod?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  5,460. All right. We are now tuning in to Episode 3722. This one is about Brewers-Pirates 2007, Joe take it away!

ALEX:  I really, I, again, not to, not to go too far on this, on this bit. I mean, maybe we’re kind of past that point with Joe West. But like, I’m more interested in his musical career than his umpiring career, frankly. Like we’ve seen his umpiring career. play out. I’m sure that he has stories with which he will regale the dozens of listeners.

BOBBY:  Dozens. Just for context, Alex, he has 65 monthly listeners on pu- on Spotify. Cowboy Joe West, 65 monthly listeners. Do you think the podcast will do better or worse than that?

ALEX:  It has to do better than that.

BOBBY:  You think? Who is the audience for this? Real question. Are you going to subscribe to this? You’ve been known to subscribe to things that don’t actually appeal to you–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –for content.

ALEX:  Just so that I’m, I’m, I, I like to stay abreast of what’s going on, on the other side of the baseball world. So I may tune in for episode one, just again, out of sheer curiosity.

BOBBY:  I’m going to wait for, for the first 10 to come out and then I’m going to binge them. You know, Netflix style.

ALEX:  That’s, good call.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. I asked you if there’s anybody that you’d rather see, be gifted a podcast in the greater baseball world.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Is there anybody that you would want to have a podcast less than Joe West? Is he in the bottom five of people whose podcast you would, you were like waking up in the morning? Or sitting straight up in bed in the middle of the night being like I need this person to have a podcast. Is Joe West in the final five on planet Earth?

ALEX:  Right, like most umpires I think, well, here’s the thing, actually.

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  Yes. I’m like talking myself into–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –it now.

BOBBY:  Here comes the Zag.

ALEX:  I think most umpires probably are, are not enough of a divisive personality to actually be able to host something like this, right? That’s–

BOBBY:  Debate with Joe West.

ALEX:  This is part of his charm, right? Is that she is a turnoff to almost everyone he meets, right? I mean, the fear now, right–

BOBBY:  Sure!

ALEX:  –is if we give him this platform, what’s next?

BOBBY:  And it’s good? Even if it’s not.

ALEX:  Like does it, if even if it’s feel like–

BOBBY:  Oh that, parlay it into like a Senate run–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in Tennessee or something? I don’t know–

ALEX:  Yes. exactly.

BOBBY:  –where he is. Uhm, yeah, I have that fear, he’s pretty old though. So he would have to really hit it off quickly. Although we’ve seen you know, podcasting gives people a lot of power. Not us yet, but some people.

ALEX:  Wow, Joe West for Senate.

BOBBY:  The last five people you’d want to have a podcast in the baseball world, go first. I got three right here. Curt Schilling, just wrote them down just for shits and gigs. Curt Schilling, Rob Manfred, Gerrit Cole. Don’t wanna listen to that voice for an hour.

ALEX:  Gerrit Cole. Right. It’s not even about the content. It’s just an aesthetic choice.

BOBBY:  No. I don’t think he would say anything interesting. And then you just be listening to Gerrit Cole. And his way through not talking about spider tack for an hour.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah. I mean, there’s you could probably dislike, half of the broadcaster’s in the league right now. I don’t think they need any more of a platform than they already have, right? As soon as they stop talking–

BOBBY:  [7:59] call in–

ALEX:  –about Baseball. When things are going to get real dicey real quick.

BOBBY:  We opened this week talking about canceled culture. And we’re gonna close this week. Talking about cancel [8:10]–

ALEX:  How, how soon does do you think that comes up on his–

BOBBY:  On Joe West pod?

ALEX:  –on Joe West Podcast? Is that like an E three?

BOBBY:  That’s a phenomenal question. I think he’s going to stick to sports. Although he has a song on his spoken word album called Boys in Blue. So yeah, actually, you’re right. I think within the first 10, in the first, in the first 10 that I’ve binge, it’ll be in there.

ALEX:  Right. He has–

BOBBY:  It’ll be about how Baseball has changed too much.

ALEX  –he’s been mired in enough controversy that I think he will bring up how he was silenced. Or, or how the left attempted to silence him, following, I don’t know, support for Trump almost feels too easy, right?

BOBBY:  It’ll, he’ll use like rule changes as a way in and then he’ll start talking about how the times are changing too quickly. And then he’ll weirdly start talking about like, Alyssa Nakken and be like, I just don’t agree with it.

ALEX:  Right. I just–

BOBBY:  I manage to jump to like Trump.

ALEX:  I just think it you know, look, I, I like Alyssa. Alyssa seems great. I have no problem with women in sports. I just think they should be giving the job to the most qualified person. That’s it right there. That’s, There you go. Joe, we’re giving away segments.

BOBBY:  Shadow producers, Bobby and Alex, on the Joe West Podcast.

ALEX:  Would you, would you have them on? On–

BOBBY:  On our podcast?

ALEX:  –on here? Yes.

BOBBY:  Do you mean like in his promotional cycle, when he’s going around be like launching this new podcasts?

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  What I have him on. Yeah, I think I would. Yeah. But I wouldn’t tell him who we are.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And presumably whoever is producing this podcast based on the press release.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Would not do the, the hard work of listening to our podcast to determine whether or not we’re a good outlet for him. 

ALEX:  Right. Exactly. It’s the, it’s kind of the Eric Andre style, right? Like book, book your celebrities knowing–

BOBBY:  Don’t tell him to bid.

ALEX:  –that they have no clue what’s going. Hey, we’re a Baseball Podcast, we talk about–

BOBBY:  Just two guys. We love the game–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –you know.

ALEX:  Grew up on the game–

BOBBY:  Just like you we love the game. I wouldn’t even not, like first question, what would you ask? Hey, Joe, congrats on 5460. Did you retire early because you felt the pressure of Cancel Culture closing in on you?

ALEX:  Actually, my first question would be where to find that, his last album?

BOBBY:  Because there’s so true.

ALEX:  because there’s, because there’s one on Spotify.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  But there is one that was released.

BOBBY:  On his, ins- unsecure website.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Http–

ALEX:  Like two, Like two decades ago.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  This is, This is Joe West Lake peak MLB, peak of his umpiring career.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And he said, I have something else to say.

BOBBY:  This is like Joe West’s Wu Tang album that got brought by Shkreli.

ALEX:  Exactly, exactly!

BOBBY:  Some huge baseball fan is out there just owning the Joe West album. And none of us, none of us can hear it.

ALEX:  Yeah. If, if you the listener, own the Joe West album, or know someone who does, please, please upload that shit to mediafire. Zip file, send it our way.

BOBBY:  We just get like a really shady attachment, you know, like alarm bells go off on her laptop trying to download it.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  I think that Joe West is more of an analog guy. Probably has physical copies of that bad boy.

ALEX:  I, well, I actually, I, I came so close. Because if you go to discogs.com, which they are, are purveyors of, of new and used vinyls. I believe there is maybe–

BOBBY:  [11:37]

ALEX:  –one.

BOBBY:  [11:38]

ALEX:  There’s one or two for sale. But they were like for 70 bucks. And I couldn’t bring myself to pull the trigger.

BOBBY:  What? You didn’t tell me about this.

ALEX:  Well, this was a while ago, this was a while ago.

BOBBY:  What kind of- this was before we were raking in that sweet cash.

ALEX:  So at this, we might–

BOBBY:  Sign off, I sign off on [11:57] that.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  This is how Alex and I do, do business. You know, before we send a tweet with a photo of us. Before we make a purchase, it’s just we do a little hand signal of making a check sign off.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I sign off on purchasing the Joe West album for any sum of money.

ALEX:  I, see, you’re saying this to me right now. And I’m taking it seriously.

BOBBY:  Because why, why wouldn’t you be taking it seriously?

ALEX:  Alright, he’re we go!

BOBBY:  We’re buying the Joe West album. We’re talking about it next week on the podcast. But good luck to Joe West. It’s, it’s tough out here launching–

ALEX:  It is.

BOBBY:  –a new pod.

ALEX:  It is.

BOBBY:  Lot of competition. A lot of fish in the sea. We’ll see if he can cut through it.

ALEX:  Yeah, scooped up by The Athletic in six months–

BOBBY:  How quickly–

ALEX:  –booking it!

BOBBY:  –for he has more subscribers than us? First day? Second day? Never?

ALEX:  But what’s his retention rate, really?

BOBBY:  Exactly, exactly. Third quartile, Joe West, talk to me then. Didn’t expect this Joe West segment to go so long. But here we are, 15 minutes in. We have a bunch of stuff to talk about. It just a gift dropped on our doorstep, from the lovely son of the Reds owner, as well as some some gift wrapped quotes from Dave Cavill, our favorite men. And, and a few other small items. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[13:09]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Alex, it feels like now that the baseball season is back. We have one segment per week, where it’s just kind of a little bit of a speed round, a round up of all of the dumb stuff that management has done in the past week. Because throughout the lockout, that was kind of the whole pod, the entire thing was, how are negotiations going? How stupid is management being this week? How much do they really not want to play a baseball season? But we’re trying to contain that into a smaller segment. Maybe at the beginning, maybe at the middle of an episode. Today, after 20 minutes of Joe West podcast talk.

ALEX:  Only could do it one way.

BOBBY:  Uhm, my question to you before we even start doing that this week is, do you think we should name this segment? Do we, should we just, should we just tie it up into one nice, neat little package and give it a name every week? And just, just do this, whenever it needs to be done?

ALEX:  Right. I mean, my only fear there is, is what if the content isn’t there, right? But–

BOBBY:  We don’t have to commit to it every week. We just you know we do it here and there.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But we call it something so [14:22]–

ALEX:  Thus, thus far it has been a weekly occurrence that some owner shows that are asked.

BOBBY:  Exactly right. Here’s what I would pitch the name of this segment to be. We call it, Where Ya Gonna Go? Because you’re already listening to the podcast, Where Ya Gonna Go?

ALEX:  Where are you going today?

BOBBY:  You’re gonna listen to us talk about Phil Castellini.

ALEX:  Who else is going to do it? Who else is going to give it to you?

BOBBY:  Who else is going to talk for 20 minutes about the son of Bob Castellini? The carrot God, play the music!

SONG:  He’s got carrots, and lettuce, and mushrooms porcini, vegetable King Bob Castellini.

BOBBY:  Phil Castellini, you know, really getting Reds fans in the mood for baseball this season.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You know Greater Cincinnati area coming off, coming off the Bengals losing in the Super Bowl heartbreaking loss. Bright future for Joe Burrow and those guys. And now we head into baseball season. So happy to have baseball back and it’s so great. Great American ballpark lovely place to see a game. Heading into the season. This is what Phil Castellini has to ask Reds fans.

PHIL:  People who say, look, faith is earned 15 years of ownership. They haven’t won to the extent that we would like and so you had my faith, but you’ve lost it. Why should that fan maintain trusted me?

REDS FAN:  Well, where are you going to go? Let’s start there. I mean, sell–

PHIL:  So that’s–

REDS FAN:  –the team to who? I mean–

PHIL:  Well–

REDS FAN:  –that’s the other thing. I mean, if you want to have this debate, you know. If, if, if you want to look at what would you do with this team to have it be more profitable? Make more money, compete more in the current economic system that this game exists? It would be to pick it up and move it somewhere else.

PHIL:  And so be careful what you ask for, you know, I think we’re doing the best we can do with the resources. We’re no more pleased with the results in the fans. I’m not sitting here saying anybody should be, I’m not polishing any trophies in the office right now. And that’s what we’re here to do. But you know, the bottom line is, and I do think we’ve had to shift the discipline. We’ve tried a lot of things that didn’t work. And they came this close to working and did not nobody’s gonna tell me if–

REDS FAN:  You try it. Yeah, yeah, I get it.

PHIL:  So I think we’ve learned from those things. And trust me, Nick is, is a, is a, he is a guy on a mission. And he is a bull in a china shop that has his way to do it. And that ways to grow your own.

ALEX:  This is on Cincinnati Reds, Home Opening Day.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  Home opener for them. Where are you going to go?

BOBBY:  I would characterize that as just a bonafide threat.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He just got up there.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  And he threatened the fans.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  I mean, he was laughing his way through it. But, but that’s a legitimate threat. I’ll move the team if you don’t stop complaining. Talk about take your ball and go home.

ALEX:  Seriously, owners are–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –there.

BOBBY:  It’s not- there it goes, there it goes. We’re less than two weeks into the baseball season, everybody. It’s not often that I sympathize with the job that Rob Manfred has to do. Because he is, I would have to imagine compensated very well. He chose this. He had to make many choices along the way to become the Baseball Commissioner. As he is pretty often reminded us that he left a very lucrative job in law to be the Baseball Commissioner. Nobody fucking cares. So it’s not often that I sympathize with Rob. But when an owner goes out, and does this at home on Opening Day for their organization, I’m like, what is Rob even supposed to do? Like these guys are his bosses. Why would you say that? Why would you say that on a radio broadcast?

ALEX:  Because here’s the thing is, he’s right, right? Like, what are, what are fans going to do? He, Phil Castellini understands the power dynamics at play here. And really sucks to hear them say the quiet part out loud. But at the end of the day, the, the choices are watch Cincinnati Reds baseball, or don’t watch Cincinnati Reds baseball, right? And he is sitting there saying you can support us or not. But we’re going to run the team the way that we would like to run the team. We’re doing it in the way that we think is the best. Now whether or not that is true or whether or not that’s actually good for the organization as a whole is another thing. Whether or not that actually puts a good product on the field. But like, again, he’s not, he’s not wrong.

BOBBY:  No, he’s not wrong. But I think the thing is that, well, first of all, what this reveals to me is that Phil Castellini, is, is very online, because this man is worth hundreds of millions of dollars by inheriting a produce empire.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Vegetables, fruits, that sort of thing. As we all know, I mean, as many Tipping Pitches listeners have contributed to the proliferation of the knowledge of and he is still somehow mad enough that he’s like, we could sit here and have this debate all day long. I’m getting it left and right. It’s just like whining about people complaining about the team being bad. My dude, you just traded everybody, the second you had the chance.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like he’s even hang on to anyone other than Joey Votto just for sentiment. Your mileage may vary. I think it’s pretty funny, but it could also be pretty existential. How little of a difference there really is between this attitude and any other tanking attitude. Because what are the Reds doing they’re just trying to be bad right now. Lower payroll, and pocket some extra cash and hope that the prospects turn the franchise around in a few years. How different is that then? Name a team. The Orioles, how different is that than what the Cubs and the Astros did? It just might not work out. How different is it than the Diamondbacks? But not every, you know, VP of the team or whatever Phil Castellini’s inherited title is because his dad built a carrot empire. Not every VP of the team goes out and actually says this. At the first, literally the first chance that they get.

ALEX:  Right. Asked, asked about what fans were losing their faith in the team should think about ownership. This was his response, this was the top of mind was, “Fuck you! Pay me!”

BOBBY:  Yeah, man. I mean, we haven’t even gotten to the fact that he had a chance. They gave this man a shot to absolve himself. Say, sorry–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –Scott caught up in the heated moment, you know.

ALEX:  Walking back a little bit.

BOBBY:  Yeah, we’re working really hard on the inside here. And we hear a lot of criticism. And that criticism is fair. But here’s my perspective. That’s what he could have said, here’s what he did say, whi- while by the way, for context, he’s standing on the field, the team is taking batting practice behind him. We are mere hours before the home opener. And he is being interviewed, and this is what he says:

SPEAKER 1:  I don’t want to put you in a tough spot here. But some comments from earlier this morning on the radio or making their rounds on social media. I was just going to try to give you a platform to respond to kind of what you said earlier today. Because I think some fans are taking it the wrong way possibly or feeling like they’re rubbed the wrong way.

SPEAKER 2:  Okay, which, you have to be more specific.

SPEAKER 1:  Just saying that, you know, what else are they going to do?

SPEAKER 2:  Well, the, the answer is, are you going to abandon being a Reds fan? Are you going to abandon following this team? We haven’t abandoned it. We haven’t abandoned investing in the team and in the community. So the, the, the point is, how about everybody just settle down and celebrate and cheer for the team? You can, you can hate on us all you want. We’re not going anywhere. We haven’t abandoned our commitment to winning and investing in this franchise and in this community. So the point is, stay tuned and be a fan, celebrate these guys and look what they did [22:05] and come out here and celebrate that today. So whenever the message was heard, that, that what I mean is, stay loyal to your team and the players that give you 110%

BOBBY:  Stay loyal Alex, you’re feeling that a little bit. You feel a loyal to the A’s these days.

ALEX:  Not these days, frankly. But maybe I should, right? Because if they abandon the team–

BOBBY:  We’re gonna–

ALEX:  –don’t answer that, don’t answer that question.

BOBBY:  Please. We’re gonna get to that later.

ALEX:  Just an incredible double down.

BOBBY:  Oh, I mean, he hit the bingo card, dawg.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  In one fell swoop, he hit every single ownership talking point.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It was kind of a masterclass–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –for being honest.

ALEX:  Kind of, kind of respect the fact that he said, whatever message you guys heard, I want to clarify, it’s exactly that!

BOBBY:  It’s so good. I love that the state of baseball ownership is such that you can just, you can vaguely wave at these things that the public know about. And then just be done with your comment. You don’t have to expound upon it at all. In the first quote that we played, he’s talking about, it would be more profitable to move the team. Like so many people have made that threat that we just have a general societal understanding of what that even means. The Reds don’t have a city that they’re going to move to, they not gonna move the team!

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And if they do, where are they moving it to that’s so much more profitable than Cincinnati? How smaller market are we really talking here? Like, we’re all right in Cincinnati.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Okay, you’re doing okay with your TV deals. They like sports in Ohio. You’re doing all right with your national cable deals. Like it’s gonna be okay. Just build a casino in the river, outside [23:44]–

ALEX:  [23:44]

BOBBY:  –park, riverboat Casino. And then in the second quote, just using those buds- buzzwords of we’re not going anywhere. We’re investing in the team and the community. Sure!

ALEX:  Yeah. Where?

BOBBY:  Yeah. Where are the receipts? How are you invested of the community? Say more? Keep going. If I’m the reporter there, just like–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –say more about that, sir.

ALEX:  Right. I’m keeping the mic right there.

BOBBY:  Just leave it an awkward amount of silence. Do you think Phil, Phil Castillini will be invited on the Joe West podcast?

ALEX:  I hope, can you imagine that conversation?

BOBBY:  That’d be really good. Be really good.

ALEX:  Can you imagine Joe West, joining Reds ownership?

BOBBY:  I mean, I feel like he was probably, he was probably cashing in by the end there. That’s tenure, you know?

ALEX:  Yes!

BOBBY:  44 years of raises.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Cost of Living raises. He’s doing alright.

ALEX:  Joe West is doing quite well for himself.

BOBBY:  We can’t go back to–

ALEX:  I know, I know.

BOBBY:  –Joe West, too much Joe West talk. Anything else to say about the Phil Castellino? Before we move on to another bumbling NL central ownership group?

ALEX:  I, I want to read you a counterpoint, Bobby.

BOBBY:  Oh!

ALEX:   Real quick. Because I know we’ve spent, we spent a lot of time bashing.

BOBBY:  Please bring me into the marketplace of ideas with you.

ALEX:  But, have you thought about this that what If it’s time to call a truce? This–

BOBBY:  I’m open to the idea.

ALEX:  –this is the idea put forth by, by, by Phil Daugherty of the Cincinnati Enquirer. Castellini’s V fans needs to stop. This is a day after this books.

BOBBY:  Wow. Going for an armistice.

ALEX:  Each side knows the other side fields.

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  Each has expressed itself clearly. We spent the offseason firing spitballs at each other, time to turn the page.

BOBBY:  Firing spit balls is an interesting way of saying trading away all of the best players and the people who make and the players who make people fans.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I love how you snuck a little bad take dramatic greeting out me.

ALEX:  Oh, oh, of course!

BOBBY:  You know, back door here.

ALEX:  He goes on and says the rhetoric flamed a new Tuesday doesn’t actually, I, please would you like to quote? Would you like to quote Phil? Paul? What did he say?

BOBBY:  I thought he’s name is Phil?

ALEX:  Did I call him Phil?

BOBBY:  You did call him Phil the first time.

ALEX:  Oh my goodness.

BOBBY:  Whatever we’re leaving it in, keep it on!

ALEX:  It’s fine!

BOBBY:  Keep it rollin’.

ALEX:  It’s fine. It’s fine. He says you can debate the quality of the sorry. Phil Castillini did ultimately through Cincinnati Reds PR. Come out and apologize [26:10]–

BOBBY:  If you call it a charm.

ALEX:  –for, for his comments. He says you can debate the quality of the sorry, but what’s the point? The whole move the team narrative was created by the heathen media.

BOBBY:  Oooh!

ALEX:  That’s–

BOBBY:  Wow. Are we the heathen media? I’d like to be the heathen media. That’s kind of like what we’re striving for if we’re being honest.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s what Joe West will be calling us by the end of the interview that we did. That joke was too good to take the Stevie Berkhout we’re just leave it in.

ALEX:  I, again, there’s no real point in here. This is, this is the start of his column in which he kind of goes on to talk about the Reds and others, other pieces of news in Cincinnati sports media. He says it’s not your responsibility to change the current sell the team sentiments. I’m just suggesting you cool it. Point made, yeah? Point made.

BOBBY:  Everybody, everybody’s just been nicer to each other. This guy has it all wrong. If you’re a local sports columnist, you do not want things to simmer down. This is content.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Phil or Paul. whatever your name is. Paul, Mr. Dona- Donahue, Donaghy, Daugherty, Daugherty. We’re doing good. We are doing good, long weekend. You want the controversy! You want the arguing! This just tells me that Paul Daugherty? Got it!

ALEX:  Yep, yep!

BOBBY:  This tells me that he doesn’t do radio.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Because the radio people are probably eating–

ALEX:  Eating it up!

BOBBY:  –they’re like Phil, come on my show. Phil, come on Tipping Pitches.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We’ll play him the jingle when he comes in. We’ll play him the whole song when he goes out. Alright, can we talk about the the Nutting family?

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Let’s talk about the Nutting family, Alex. You, you sent me an article, claims that the Pirates paid for their entire payroll just by selling hotdogs. Can you expound upon that? Can you share your research?

ALEX:  Yeah, so this comes from the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. The reporter is Mark Belko. Although it seems that this was the product of a years long attempts to get these records. So a part of the–

BOBBY:  Let’s go!

ALEX:  –a part of the–

BOBBY:  The Voya.

ALEX:  –a part of the Pirates–

BOBBY:  Democracy dies in darkness.

ALEX:  –rental agreement for PNC Park, is that they, they have to, I guess collect these records and give them to the city? Question mark.

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  Make sense?

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  If you’re going to–

BOBBY:  If you’re going to do a little racketeering you got to keep a paper trail.

ALEX:  Right. The Pirates for their part it seems did not want these documents to be released. And I won- won- wonder why?

BOBBY:  One doesn’t need to read that far into the article to find out why, though.

ALEX:  Nope, you don’t even need to read past the, past the fold past–

BOBBY:  Good–

ALEX:  –the jump.

BOBBY:  –good lead on this, this article by the way.

ALEX:  If you think the Pirates are paying their players in peanuts, you’re right. And in hot dogs, nachos, popcorn, and beer too.

BOBBY:  Bars.

ALEX:  Yeah, the kind of lead you can only dream to–

BOBBY:  Oh, I love that.

ALEX:  –to write.

BOBBY:  Walked right into it.

ALEX:  So the, the gist of it is that Pirates payroll for effectively for the last 15 years has more or less been, been covered by the revenues from tickets, selling tickets, and concessions.

BOBBY:  Basically yeah, what we colloquially referred to as gate receipts.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  In the baseball world.

ALEX:  Right. Exactly. That’s where they collect a single dollar from local TV deals from national TV deals.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  From Revenue Sharing.

BOBBY:  I–

ALEX:  Before they get $1 from Major League Baseball, the corporation. And I’d like to point out that money likely runs into the, not likely, absolutely runs into the 10s of millions of dollars, if not hundreds of millions of dollars.

BOBBY:  According to FanGraphs keeps a running updated chart on their website of local TV deals. Because the national TV deals are split evenly, among the 30 teams. That is currently around $65 million of national TV money that each team receives. The Pirates are one of the lowest TV deals, local TV deals. Do you know how much money they make Alex? They make $44 million dollars a year from local TV contracts, about.

ALEX:  Interesting, where’s the money going do you think?

BOBBY:  But wait, hold on. I’m adding it.

ALEX:  Do the math. I can see the wheels turning.

BOBBY:  Adding it 44, $109 million, Alex, $109 million. That’s how much money they’re clearing. Now, obviously, there are other expenses, but there are also other revenue streams.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like marketing, ads, sponsorships around the stadium, you know, merchandise.

ALEX:  Well, and their and their claim is that, yes, there are other expenses, right? That is scouting, player development staffs, paying for the facilities, the upkeep of facilities.

BOBBY:  I’m just really resisting the urge to make a joke about all of these things.

ALEX:  Scouting!

BOBBY:  Uhh, not good with the Pirates.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Player Development, even worse. The [31:29] on the other hand, though, PNC Park right here, it’s beautiful, haven’t been king firm.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We’ll go this year.

ALEX:  Minor league salaries as well, on the payroll. I don’t know if you’ve heard anything about minor league salaries lately?

BOBBY:  What is the total expenditure for the Pirates’ Minor League salaries? Less than 10, right?

ALEX:  Absolutely.

BOBBY:  Less than five. Less than $1 million. In those really a couple 100. And they only make like 20,000 a year.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. The, the most generous guess is a couple million, maybe? If you include the staff that–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –runs the ballparks that run the, the teams. But again, we’re talking like single digit millions of dollars here. The team would like you to believe that, that, that figure you said earlier.

BOBBY:  $109 million.

ALEX:  $190 million.

BOBBY:  9, 109.

ALEX:  $109 million.

BOBBY:  No fake news here.

ALEX:  Is–

BOBBY:  No hidden media.

ALEX:  –is simply being reinvested back into the team, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Absolutely, Bob Nutting is not pocketing that cash.

BOBBY:  I mean, they’re putting together a war chest for the next big free agent. Juan Soto to Pittsburgh?

ALEX:  Lookout. If you take into account Ke’Bryan Hayes’ extension.

BOBBY:  Which is so under market, by the way.

ALEX:  Which is so under market, the Pirates opening day payroll this year was $53 million. So the checks that they are clearing outside of gate receipts are quite literally double their payroll at the moment.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Turns out, baseball is profitable. This just in, baseball is profitable.

ALEX:  And, well, and the thing is like this seems to undercut the argument that it’s actually incredibly expensive to run a baseball team. Or it’s expensive to,  to pay players, right? Because it’s your argument then that the payroll is actually the least of your worries that it costs $100 million to do everything else.

BOBBY:  I’m so surprised that in their justification for how much money they need to spend outside of just this, the pure salaries from the players on the major league roster. They didn’t bring up health insurance for the players. Ownership groups fucking love to talk about how much money it takes to insure baseball players..

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I’m like so, then you, do you support universal health care then?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Medicare for all? Bob Nutting? What’s up, dawg. Where your political donations at? Were you at the Bernie rallies my guy? So your point and not only undercuts the, the argument that they make year in and year out. But it also clashes strangely with the arguments that we heard during the pandemic season. Because they made it seem like there were such slim margins throughout the rest of the seasons. Like that the financial reality of baseball is that they need to bring fans in and they need these gate receipts every year. But if the Pirates are covering their payroll, just on gate receipts in every other year, then missing gate receipts for one year doesn’t actually hurt that much.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s not the only money that they were making, as we just laid out. So it’s like every kicker to all of these conversations that we have, just like so they’re lying to us. I don’t really know what–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –what to do about that.

ALEX:  There isn’t much of a takeaway. Or the #smartanalysis that you can really do beyond, why do we keep taking these guys seriously? Why do we keep taking them at their word?

BOBBY:  Well, that brings us directly to the last thing in, Where Ya Gonna Go? The hot new Tipping Pitches segment of 2022. Which is a quote from A’s President, Dave Kaval. This guy is just getting quotes out there for us. He’s like, Tipping Pitches need something to talk about this week, hold my beer.

ALEX:  It is the only thing he does. He exists solely to provide fodder for us and to cover John Fisher’s asks, in one breath.

BOBBY:  Have we ever told the story of how we tried to get Dave Kaval on the podcast a few years back?

ALEX:  Just by incessantly tweeting at him and, and shooting–

BOBBY:  Emailing him.

ALEX:  –shooting cold emails.

BOBBY:  The asbr There was a time where we were getting give this guy a platform.

ALEX:  Well, there was a time when I, when I ran into now former A’s owner, Lew Wolff’s grandson.

BOBBY:  I was there for this.

ALEX:  Yes. Outs–

BOBBY:  Iconic Alex Bazeley moment, by the way.

ALEX:  Right. You rockin’ A’s hat, were coming home. Were we coming home from the newspaper they point?

BOBBY:  Yeah, from work. Yeah. This is when you really pushed to your farthest. Like if I could have sat down and recorded the Tipping Pitches with you in one of those moments. Some hot shit would have flown out, that’s–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –for sure.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  This will be a different kind of podcast.

ALEX:  Young man, young NYU student approaches me and says my, my grandfather is Lew Wolff. And I say, I have–

BOBBY:  Wait, wait, wait, wait. For even say, for even say this. It’s like two in the morning, on like a Thursday.

ALEX:  Right. He is, this man is receiving no filter.

BOBBY:  He is, I don’t want to slander him, but I think had a better night than us. Probably like maybe he was going out drinking something. He looked like he was having fun. He was hanging out with a little gaggle of NYU students. Outside of the freshman dorm. We were not freshmen, we were juniors who just worked eight hours after going to class all day. So it’s not like we were in the best mood.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You’re wearing your A’s hat as you did basically every day. And then this, this, this 18, 19 year old young man approaches you.

ALEX:  Yeah. And, and I’m like, can, can I, can I talk with him, please? I have, I have some–

BOBBY:  Can I have his phone number?

ALEX:  I have some questions for Mr. Wolff. Now, now, Lew Wolff got out clearly, because the business baseball was, was not quite profitable. He–

BOBBY:  I–

ALEX:  –shortly thereafter sold his stake in the team. Perhaps because he heard that there were some, some heavy hitters who were coming with some, with some big questions for him.

BOBBY:  We’ve been friends for a long time. But that doesn’t mean that you don’t still have the capacity to surprise me. You surprised me on that night. Like, if I met the grandson of Fred Wilpon, I’d probably just walk the other way.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I don’t think I would have been like, I hate your granddad.

ALEX:  Which to be clear, I, I–

BOBBY:  [37:51] once you did. You weren’t like fuck that guy.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  I would slap him in the face right now. No, that wasn’t like that. But you were kind of just like, that sucks.

ALEX:  Yeah. It’s like really?

BOBBY:  It’s like that.

ALEX:  Are you okay?

BOBBY:  Like, Thanks for nothing. Tell your grandpa, don’t come around these parts.

ALEX:  Oh, my goodness. All this brings us back to Dave Kaval.

BOBBY:  Oh, I forgot. Yeah. Okay, the last, the last of the, the trio in Where Ya Gonna Go this week comes from Dave Kaval. He, this is from an article written by Bill Shaikin, who’s a MLB reporter for the Los Angeles Times. Apparently Dave Kaval, was asked about if the A’s get their new ballpark, which they’ve been angling for, as has been covered ad nauseam on Tipping Pitches. You would think that with this beautiful new ballpark, that means more fans will come out, increase revenue. As we just saw from the Pittsburgh Pirates, you can make a lot of money, year over year at just some hotdogs at ballparks. Turns out when you get charged 18.50 for a beer and 9.50 for a hot dog. That extra profit actually goes somewhere. So Dave Kaval was asked about what the A’s payroll will look like, if they get their new ballpark. Or when they get their new ballpark. I guess it will get it somewhere whether it’s Las Vegas, or Oakland. Will the A’s be in the top 10 of payroll? Dave Kaval says 100%, 100% the A’s will be in MLBs top 10 payrolls. So it’s just gonna happen then, right?

ALEX:  So just, that’s it!

BOBBY:  Congratulations!

ALEX:  So good. Wow!

BOBBY:  How does it feel?

ALEX:  The A’s–

BOBBY:  We go live to Alex Bazeley, lifelong A’s fan [39:35]–

ALEX:  [39:35]

BOBBY:  I mean, I really went back and forth, debating whether I wanted to talk about this or talk about any of these things–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –honestly.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Because it’s like, on one hand, should we focus so much on this? Should we waste so much brain space, making jokes about this every week? And on the other hand, it’s inescapable. How am I supposed to be a baseball fan without engaging with this?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Honestly, I had a great time watching baseball all week. We went to, you and I have now been to three baseball games this year in person, already. Just a week and a half into the season. That’s so much money a baseball game [40:41].

ALEX:  Getting ridiculous. We need to slow down.

BOBBY:  Pace ourselves, pace ourselves.

ALEX:  Always, always good when we’re like we need to stop going to so many baseball games. My wallet cannot afford it.

BOBBY:  Yep. That’s good for the sport.

ALEX:  It is good for the sport.

BOBBY:  Thanks, Rob. But then, as I was sitting down to take notes for this, number one, it’s like this is what Tipping Pitches does. But number two, it’s like, this is the stuff that is being foregrounded by the quote unquote, “stewards of the game”. Phil Castellini owns the team. Dave Kaval, is President of the team. Now the Pirates didn’t want us to get out, but it fit into the segment. I mean, I think it’s kind of incumbent on us to continue to mock these guys out of sport to continue to be the heathen media presence that we strive to be.

ALEX:  Yeah. If we believe that all of these assertions are true, from Kaval.

BOBBY:  Yes, yes. I love this hypothetical. I was going to ask you something very similar.

ALEX:  Howard Terminal gets done. It opens in say, I, I think their target is roughly 2027 will say 2028.

BOBBY:  Yup!

ALEX:  A top 10 payroll is going to be more than $200 million.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  That is–

BOBBY:  Run another CBA by then by the way, right?

ALEX:  We’re on another CBA by then. I, the A’s are cashing revenue checks at that point. So more, more streams of income. But that’s, that’s obviously, we’re talking of them quadrupling their payroll, right.? Doing nothing, nothing in the middle, mind you, right? Running $50, $60 million payrolls up until then. And then what an Opening Day 2028? Opening Day 2029?

BOBBY:  Not even going to be enough players to spend that money on.

ALEX:  Right. Is the assumption that this is going to bring in $150 million overnight?

BOBBY:  I just think that, well, number one, I think that they think that we’re stupid, we should just say that.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That’s just like the foundation of these conversations. And I think that the vision that they would like to sell you and it trickles into the whole ballpark conversation with the A’s. The vision that they would like to sell you is [42:29] exactly like the Giants. We’re gonna have a ballpark right on the water, it’s going to be state of the art. Everybody’s gonna love it. Everybody’s gonna want to play here, everybody’s gonna want to come see a game. Oakland is the new hot shit. We could do 45 minutes right now the gentrification of Oakland.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And how that will impact The Athletics and what they’re plan, what their plan is with this ballpark. But it clearly is what they’re factoring in. They’re like, yeah, look, all this tech money is going to trickle over to Oakland, eventually. Why not spend it at the ballpark? I just think it’s so craven to insinuate that you can’t spend any of this money now. You can only spend it once you’ve received your blood money, I guess? Like once you’ve, once you’ve dangle that carrot in front of the city of Oakland long enough that they just do anything in their power to, to jump out and grab it? I don’t know. It’s, when you start to think about how much else has to, how much space the A’s have to take up for all of this to happen? It starts to just become really distasteful to be like, well start spending when you do this for us.

ALEX:  Yeah, the argument seems to be that the thing that will get fans into the ballpark are, are shiny new toys like a new stadium. Redeveloped surrounding area, maybe a highly inefficient gondola that takes you from downtown Oakland to the ballpark. And, again, this just, I mean–

BOBBY:  People will come ray from far and wide. They’ll come to ride this highly inefficient gondola fell down from the [44:07]–

ALEX:  [44:07] lake shore. They’ll come from the diamond district.

BOBBY:  Yes they will, yes they will.

ALEX:  They will come from Redwood heights.

BOBBY:  Yes, they will. Oh, people will come rey.

ALEX:  Here’s the thing, let’s go back to 1988. The year the A’s lose the World Series. Their attendance, it ranks 7th out of 14. This is playing, I don’t know if you heard the stadium they were in was the, the Oakland Coliseum.

BOBBY:  Heard of it.

ALEX:  The following year, they win the World Series. Their attendance ranks 2nd out of 14. This is, at the time they were playing at the Oakland Coliseum.

BOBBY:  The same, Oakland?

ALEX:  Same one.

BOBBY:  Coliseum from the year before, but not the same from now, right?

ALEX:  The, the year after that and it really it pains me to say these words, they lose the World Series. This is a 1990, their attendance ranks 2nd out of 14. This is at the time they are playing at the Oakland Coliseum. The year after that they don’t make the playoffs. Their attendance ranks 3rd out of 14 at the time they are playing at the Oakland Coliseum.

BOBBY:  It’s come all the way back around, it’s funny again.

ALEX:  I have a feeling that it was not the shiny new amenities that were drawing people to the ballpark at that point. You know who was on that team? Rickey Henderson.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Mark McGwire.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  Dennis Eckersley, heard of him?

BOBBY:  Heard of him.

ALEX:  Many of them known to have some of their best years with the A’s.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I mean, the notion that a new expensive ballpark that is partially paid for by public funds or whatever, anybody but John Fisher, basically. The notion that that is the only way to bring in fans, it’s just it’s incredibly convenient. Like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –that’s really nice. Yeah, give me this big, huge asset. It’s the only way I can keep the team going. It would never help to put a good product on the field.

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  It would never help to lower ticket prices. It would never help to lower concessions. None of these things would help. The only thing that can help. The only solution that is possible, is giving me this huge big asset that’s worth billions of dollars.

ALEX:  Yeah, you can even fast forward to the early 2000s, right? The Moneyball A’s, in which I, I don’t know if you watch the movie. But their whole shit was not getting stars, right? But they feel that successful baseball teams and you know what? Their attendance numbers were right in the middle of the pack of the American League. They weren’t at the top, maybe because they didn’t have the Rickey Henderson’s of the world. But it didn’t matter, because they made the, the playoffs four straight years. And they were interested in fielding competitive baseball teams. Quite a low that next decade.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  When they weren’t really interested in doing that, I don’t know. It makes me think there’s something other than the ballpark itself, that is keeping fans away.

BOBBY:  I just think it is, it’s, you know, it’s just, it’s really, unfortunately, I hate to admit it, it’s kind of clever, you know. The way that these, these management faces go about these things. Because I think it would be cool to have a beautiful new ballpark. I don’t have anything against the Colosseum, I’ve never been there. But you know, it’s probably not the nicest ballpark in baseball.

ALEX:  Watch yourself.

BOBBY:  They could obviously do, they can update it, and they can make it better.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But I’ve heard enough people have legitimate gripes about the Coliseum.

ALEX:  Right. Heard of, heard of sewage, anyone?

BOBBY:  Fans, media, players, I’ve heard it. It’s real. I’ll give Dave Kaval that. But the funds for addressing that problem, the revenue for addressing that problem, the buck for addressing that problem, does not need to be passed along to anyone else except the people who purportedly run the team. But it’s a sexy idea to sell people, though. Like, we’re going to get this beautiful new ballpark, it’s going to be state of the art, and we’re going to fill it and it’s going to rock and it’s going to be a great place to see, to see a ballgame. It’s like what all businesses do in America. They’re like, yes, we have to raise the prices on this item a little bit. But you know what you’re getting in exchange? Luxury. It’s like what airlines do, they like, give you some pretzels. And they’re like, now this, now this flight cost $568. And you’re just like, sure. And then when you look at the ticket price, they break it down. And they’re like, so much of this is fuel. Some of this is like air, you know, airline maintenance. And I’m like, how much of this is the, the, the profit that buys back the stocks for the CEO–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –of this airline?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like, I don’t see that line item, you know what I mean? Like, and that’s, it’s no different than what Dave Kaval is doing. It’s no different than what John Fisher is doing.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Just being like, if you want it to be better, you have to pay for it to be better. And I’m like, No, actually, you have to pay for anybody. You’re the person that owns it at the end of the day. But I’ll happily pay for it to be better. If you, if the city expropriated. Like otherwise it’s not my fucking problem.

ALEX:  Yeah. Well, and as Bob Nutting and co seemed to have shown us, you actually don’t need to still be bringing people in the front door to be making a pretty penny, right? It’s not like the Pirates have done great as far as attendance goes as of late. They’ve topped out at 9th out of 15 in the last three decades. Three decades, they’ve mostly been sitting around 13, 14, 15 in the league. As we heard earlier, that money is covering their payroll and they are pocketing 10s of million dollars after that. So the notion that it, there are no fans coming to the games. The ballpark is not an enticing place to play. Therefore, it is financially impossible for us to feel the competitive baseball team. Until we have a new stadium, until we have people coming in that door. It just, it just doesn’t track. It doesn’t make sense.

BOBBY:  No. Thank you, Dave Kaval, for your participation in this week’s episode of Tipping Pitches. What do you think of, what do you think of the title for the segment, Where Ya Gonna Go? Still hold up?

ALEX:  I love it.

BOBBY:  Great. You love it.

ALEX:  Yes. I’m on board.

BOBBY:  Wow! Okay, we’ll see how the fans like it. Let’s take a quick break. And then when we come back, a couple, couple housekeeping up here.

[50:41]

[Transition Music]

ALEX:  Bobby, this past week was Jackie Robinson Day. There’s really not much for us to say, on the league’s dereliction of their duty in honoring Jackie Robinson’s legacy. We’ve talked about it here in the past. We’ve talked about it on our own. We’ve talked about it with one Shakeia Taylor, who wrote a, a wonderful piece over baseball prospectus, talking about the, the myriad ways that the league could actually honor his legacy. It’s linked in the show notes. I highly encourage everyone to read it. Here’s the league did do.

BOBBY:  The only thing they know how, apparently.

ALEX:  They dropped, they dropped an NF T. I know we said we weren’t going to talk about individual player NFTs, on this podcast. I know it’s a banned topic.

BOBBY:  Not exactly what I was imagining when I banned to that topic.

ALEX:  Really I think not what anyone was imagining. So instead of retreading over this ground, I’d like to pose a question to you. What do you think the most offensive NFT is that the lead could drop in trying to honor their history?

BOBBY:  Oh, oh, so we’re going for most offensive?

ALEX:  Well, okay. It doesn’t have to be most offensive, I guess. What’s the one that might catch you off guard the least, right? That, that says I didn’t think they’d go down that road. Because, because I have, I have a couple in my head. But I want to, I want to open the floor to you.

BOBBY:  Well, I thought you were going to ask what would be worst for the, what would be the worst NFT that they could possibly concoct for the timeline. And I was gonna be like, probably like an Alex Bregman NFT. Because he’s so boring–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –but also so corny. And he would just be, you know, hacking it all the time.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like every opportunity he would get like, he has his hot sauce.

ALEX:  I’m saying perfect world. What is the most outlandish NFT they could drop? That would just give us the, the pod for the week?

BOBBY:  Oh, it, it probably have to be Marvin Miller and Curt Flood.

ALEX:  Hey, yeah.

BOBBY:  Right? Like–

ALEX:  Yeah!

BOBBY:  –they neither of the Miller or Flood family profits from it. I think like that, like the, the iconic photo of Miller and Flood, they drop it as an NFT.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But it’s like been, been, been redesigned, maybe? Yeah, I don’t even know.

ALEX:  Yeah, they–

BOBBY:  They, they just, they take that photo and make, it which is like I think public domain [53:27]

ALEX:  They, the thought of a, they thought they have a Marvin Miller NFTs is kind of making me sick to my stomach [53:34] on us.

BOBBY:  What else did you have?

ALEX:  Here, here’s some, here’s some ideas. These are, these are free to the league if they want to take them, okay?

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  And NFT–

BOBBY:  Giving away intellectual property live–

ALEX:  We are giving away–

BOBBY:  –on Tipping Pitches.

ALEX:  –intellectual property. Yes. And NFT of the Mitchell Report.

BOBBY:  That’s good. Okay.

ALEX:  And NFT, so this one might exist. I don’t know, I haven’t, there, there is like an NFT like, archive, right? There’s a, there’s a site on which you can buy MLB NFTs. Rick Monday saving the American flag at Dodger Stadium. They’re actually like, that’s, I feel like that’s mainstream enough that people would probably buy that.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like there’s a portion of the league for whom, that is perfect. That is what they want to own.

BOBBY:  Yeah. The Bartman highlight?

ALEX:  The Bartman highlight. Wow!

BOBBY:  Like you own the official video of Bartman preventing the catch.

ALEX:  Yes, immortalized him on the blockchain, the worst moment of this man’s life.

BOBBY:  They would do it. And they would be like, surprised they never sa- sold like Bartman starter pack merch.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You know, you get the headphones.

ALEX:  Like buy Bartman headphones

BOBBY:  Yeah. Okay, what else? Was that it? You have anymore?

ALEX:  Lou Gehrig’s luckiest man on earth speech. NFT it, book it. Again, this was one that I thought maybe they’d already done.

BOBBY:  I love how little credit you’re giving them. It’s good, it’s, it’s right you’re right to do it.

ALEX:  Once again, really didn’t think we’d get a Jackie Robinson NFT out here. But, folks, Rob Manfred is the gift that keeps on giving.

BOBBY:  And NFT of all of the scabs, who came in during the lockout.

ALEX:  Ohhh.

BOBBY:  Individual NFT is for each scabs.

ALEX:  Yes. Yes.

BOBBY:  That would give us a lot of content.

ALEX:  That would give us so much content.

BOBBY:  We could buy them. We bought the scabs, we own the scabs!

ALEX:  We owned all the scabs and Joe West’s last album. That’s all I need in [55:40]

BOBBY:  Wow! Were, this is a portfolio at this point. That’s a lot of stuff.

ALEX:  This is, this is an investment.

BOBBY:  Okay. Can we move on? Please.

ALEX:  So we talked about our NFTs?

BOBBY:  Yes. We’re launching an NFT. It’s, it’s an NF T of real life t shirt that you can buy. We call it an NFT maybe more people will buy it and pay more money for it. $10,000 NFT of a T-shirt. We are finally launching some more new T-shirts. It’s been a little while you know the lockout put us on pause for a while. Me moving out across the country on, on pause for a little while. And we’ve heard your please. Repeated please, for us to make your teens Unionize the Minors shirt. I’m not going to give it away as to which team we are launching.

ALEX:  Well because none of them are inspired by teams, right? They are all proprietary designs.

BOBBY:  Right. This is parody. I don’t think that really extends that far. I’m not going to say which, which Unionize the Minors design is coming next. We will also be launching one potentially two new designs that are not Unionize the Minors, they’ll have an anti owner sentiment. I mean, you know what it is?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You, you probably think it’s, you probably chuckle, maybe. Help you buy it, please buy it. We’ll be getting these T-shirts up within the next couple of weeks. But this will be the last time that we’ll be specifically teasing merch on the podcast. Because of the next news that we have, which is that we’re going to start at Tipping Pitches Patreon. We’re doing it–

ALEX:  It was, it was only a matter, y’all.

BOBBY:  I mean, you sit in the same broker department recording a podcast long enough. The Patreon just kind of spawns itself out of–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –thin air.

ALEX:  It comes to you.

BOBBY:  The details are not released of that. It’ll probably be three tiers. We will make it eminently available, where you can find the link to that in the podcast description, in our Twitter bio, once we have it actually launched. But you know for the folks that listen to the very end of the podcast, we thought we would give people a quick heads up. Do you want to, you want to kind of give people a preview of what might be available on the Patreon? Or do you want to keep that as, as you said proprietary top secret clearance only information?

ALEX:  I think we can give the folks a little, a little taste. I mean, as you mentioned, Patreon subscribers will be the first to know about any new merch that is dropping the have the first shot at that they will have access to extended conversations, ones that perhaps didn’t make the cut into the podcast. They will have access to a private Tipping Pitches slack where you can just shoot the shit with us, you know. Get out the DMs into the slack, right?

BOBBY:  That’s what I’m always saying.

ALEX:  That’s what I’m always saying as well. An opportunity for more, more intimate conversations with you and I,–

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  –Bobby,

BOBBY:  So open ended right there, the way that you introduce, I love the salesman, Alex that’s happening right here!

ALEX:  Right, of course.

BOBBY:  Love seeing Alex need to be a, a capitalist?

ALEX:  We live in a society, dude.

BOBBY:  you get a private slack, you get a private slack! You get an intimate conversation, you get an exclu- you’ll probably get like, you know exclusive promo codes for merch–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –to, you know–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –like one time free T-shirts, that kind of thing as well.

ALEX:  And maybe even, you know, I don’t, some of you may have heard that in the past life we, we used to write. We may once again–

BOBBY:  Dust off those keyboards. There’ll be a bunch of other stuff–

ALEX:  [59:26], goes yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  We don’t need to give the full list down right now. Because the Patreon as I, I said earlier is not yet created, not yet publicly available. We are still working on getting everything in order before we fully launched it out into the world so that we’re not like launching it and changing it and confusing a bunch of people. But just know that it’s in the works. We’re doing it. It’s real. And a pre emptive thank you to anybody who is interested in subscribing. For any of that extra stuff or even just at, you know at the lowest level, thank you tier, that will be available to people too. You know we make this podcast in our free time. This is not a full time job. It, it’s still a lot of work, despite it not being our full time job. It’s fun for us, obviously. But it takes up a lot of harder, real life time in the world. And we’re, were so incredibly thankful for people who listen to it because of that. And we’ll not lament anybody who can’t or isn’t interested in paying for a Patreon. But for those of you who are comfortable doing that are able doing that, it would, it would really mean a lot to us to, you know, get on the path of being compensated for our work here. So that’s very important to us. And, and, you know, in the long run, commit more to the Tipping Pitches podcast.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And the greater Tipping Pitches experience.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. This weekly episode, going to remain free, right? We want to, we will always be back on our bullshit in your feeds, every monday or tuesday if we’re at Bobby’s families for Easter, you know.

BOBBY:  Oh yeah, I forgot to mention, that’s why this podcast isn’t delayed.

ALEX:  So rest assured, you’ll, you’ll still be able to see us here on a weekly basis. But if you want access to any of those extra goodies, keep your eyes peeled. We’ll, we’ll be dropping more news about that soon.

BOBBY:  I don’t know why you lied and, and didn’t tell the people that if you live in New York City, this podcast we blacked out. You have to pay an exclusive Patreon level to get in Marquette podcast.

ALEX:  Yeah, we’re actually, well that’s the third piece of news is that we’re joining forces with Valley Sports.

BOBBY:  That’s parody. That’s actually parody.

ALEX:  That is actually parody.

BOBBY:  We are not joining forces with Valley Sports. What we are doing is ending this podcast and coming back into your feeds for free still, next week. Thanks everybody, for listening.

[1:01:56]

[Music]

[1:02:13]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodApril 19, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:jackie robinson day, joe west podcast, NFTs, Tipping Pitches
Leave a comment on Where Ya Gonna Go?	
What’s In the Box?

Alex and Bobby discuss Rob Manfred’s generous gift to players on Opening Day and a rest stop encounter in Delaware, then break down the news that the Lerner family is exploring a sale of the Washington Nationals, as well as the Baltimore Orioles receiving a whopping $1.2 billion in public funds from the state of Maryland. Then, they run down some takeaways from Opening Weekend, including the arrival of Steven Kwan and Hunter Greene, a downright unfair perfect game in Japan, the Rays’ attendance accounting hack, and more. Finally, they tackle listener questions about a bizarrely-made case to nationalize baseball,  the actual mechanics of nationalizing the sport, walk up songs in Washington D.C. and a big team in a small stadium.

Links:
Could Fans Own A Team? 

The Tipping Pitches playlist (thanks listener Britt for maintaining!)

Songs featured in this episode:
Modern Baseball — “Tears Over Beers” • Lauryn Hill — “Ex-Factor” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and, and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about? That’s amazing! That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, as we get ready to start this podcast, I wanted to take a moment to send a note of appreciation. Being a podcaster is an extraordinary accomplishment, that beyond your remarkable talent. So as your dedication to this great show, along with our clubs, have committed to working together with all podcasters to grow the art of podcasting. I’m excited about the opportunities that lie ahead. And by podcasting together, I know that we can bring the game to new heights. Please accept this gift, as a small gesture of my appreciation for the hard work that comes with being a podcaster. And your respect for our incredible listeners. Thank you for everything that you do in a podcast that has such a rich history and deep meaning to our fans in the United States and around the world. Wishing you the best of luck for, for a successful season of podcasting. Sincerely, Bob.

ALEX:  What’s the gift?

BOBBY:  Apparently the gift is a pair of Bose headphones.

ALEX:  So what you’re saying is, we don’t need to unionize because you’re throwing us a pizza party instead, right? Because–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –this is just a great workplace. And this is your way of expressing that generous spirit of yours. Not, not at the bargaining table, right?

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  You don’t need to take it there. But–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –but just as as person to person.

BOBBY:  For listeners who are very confused as to what is happening right now. MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred put a gift box in the locker of every player before they played their first game this past week. Many of you will have seen that. The Major League Baseball season has started. And Rob Manfred saw that too. And you know what he decided that in light of the animosity that was showed this past offseason. He decided that it’s just, it’s time to go the Derek Jeter route. It’s time to give gift baskets to show your appreciation, instead of actually doing it through actions at words.

ALEX:  This doesn’t even qualify as a gift basket, right? Like I think a gift basket requires–

BOBBY:  Well, that’s, that’s, that’s a great, that’s a great point, great point. Yes.

ALEX:  at least multiple items.

BOBBY:  We’ve only had a report of one of the items that was in here. But is there a chance that there was more stuff?

ALEX:  I feel like no, like it would be weird that that would be the only thing that was reported.

BOBBY:  Maybe that was just the marquee item, a pair of 300- $300 Bose headphones.

ALEX:  You know, those don’t come cheap, man.

BOBBY:  They absolutely don’t. Are you telling me that if Rob Manfred walked up to you on the street right now, and said I’d like to offer you a token of my appreciation for being such a great and committed baseball fan. In this world that we live in where so many things are asking for your attention. You tell me that you wouldn’t take those phone, those headphones?

ALEX:  Those headphones, just proportionally speaking, make up a much higher percentage of my net worth, most Major League Baseball players. I, it would be like him walking up and saying thank you for your service as a podcaster. As my token of appreciation, here’s a notebook that you can use to prepare for your episodes.

BOBBY:  I would accept that too.

ALEX:  I, I mean, I would, I wouldn’t turn it down.

BOBBY:  Is this the first step into a beautiful friendship between Rob Manfred in the MLB Players Association? What do you think?

ALEX:  I think so, he’s made it very clear that the, the animosity that defined the offseason is, is not how he’d liked this relationship to be going forward. So, where are we 6, 7, 7 years into his tenure as a Major League Baseball Commissioner?

BOBBY:  Which means we’re also 7 years removed from when he said that one of his top priorities was having a good relationship with the players.

ALEX:  He’s like, no, at this time, I’m really, I’m really serious.

BOBBY:  And to prove that to you, here’s some headphones that you can use on the plane.

ALEX:  Right. Unfortunately, they’re only preloaded with the newest YouTube album.

BOBBY:  You can get the newest YouTube album, the Buster Olney MLB podcasts. And nothing from Ken Rosenthal.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  Okay, well, baseball is back, Alex. We have a ton to talk about, including our voyage down to Washington DC to see Max Scherzer’s debut with the Mets. As well as Chris Bassitt;s debut with the Mets. Less talked about, but equally as important to you, Alex Bazeley.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Former reformed A’s fan? I don’t know, TBD, you haven’t decided yet. Plus a bunch of stuff that doesn’t just relate to the New York Mets including the fact that the, the team that they were playing this weekend is potentially up for sale. We will get to all of that as well as some listener questions. But before we do that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[5:32]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Okay, I know we have a lot to talk about. But first, we have to do storytime.

ALEX:  All right. Do you have, do you have a story cued up, that you want to, you want to grace the listeners headphones with?

BOBBY:  Their Bose headphones.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Free from Rob Manfred, universal basic headphones. Yes. Here’s the story. It, the day is Sunday, April 10. You and I, as well as our partners are loaded into a car to drive back up to the great city of New York, more specifically, Brooklyn. Where the four of us all live.

ALEX:  “The Big Apple” as it’s known. I’m walking here.

BOBBY:  Keep going. You got more of this? If you can make it here, you could make it anywhere. Concrete Jungle.

ALEX:  There you go. Where dreams are made of?

BOBBY:  Yup! No, we’re in the car. We’re on our way back. And we’re in the great state of Delaware, Alex, and we make a little pitstop. Because, primarily because I had to pee. But secondarily, because we wanted to show some respect for the dignity that has been restored to this country by none other than Joseph R. Biden. And so we stopped at the Joseph R. Biden rest up in Delaware, just outside Wilmington, Delaware. It’s right off 95, they got a Starbucks, that a drive through Starbucks. It was closed, but they did have a drive through Starbucks.

ALEX:  To Starbucks, that’s again, this is what Joe Biden is doing to our economy.

BOBBY:  Greatest president ever? So we’re standing there, we’re having our photo taken in front of the Joseph R. Biden rest stop sign.

ALEX:  Right. I think I wanted, I wanted the sign that, that displayed all the beautiful amenities that graced the–

BOBBY:  Right, is different, the different fast food chains that you could attend at the Joseph R. Biden.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Participate in–

ALEX:  [7:41]

BOBBY:  –give back to the economy via. And I look to my right, as we’re standing there saluting the camera. And you know who’s walking by? Of course, you know who’s walking by, you were there, the listeners. You know who’s walking by? 1986 World Series Champion, first baseman, Keith Hernandez. 

ALEX:  Yeah, I just like to say, there is a, a picture out there and, and, and maybe we’ll post this on Twitter once the, once this pod drops. I am standing there staring directly into the camera. Just–

BOBBY:  Saluting.

ALEX:  –in full salute.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  And Bobby is looking to the right. Just mouthed slightly a gape, as he realizes who that is.

BOBBY:  I just want to say, it took me precisely .001 seconds to know that that was Keith Hernandez. I had no second, I had no doubts, no second guessing in my head at all. I saw him for a split second. And I looked you right in the eyes and I said that is Keith Hernandez. And you said, what? And I said, that is Keith Hernandez. And I think I pointed at him. Yep!

ALEX:  Yes, you did. He was, he was just kind of, I don’t know if wandering is the right word, but it doesn’t feel like the, the wrong word he deserves.

BOBBY:  No, [9:01] I would, I would call it a wander.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  It was pretty aimless. If we’re going to be honest.

ALEX:  [9:05]

BOBBY:  If we’re going to be, if we’re going to be truth tellers here.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He was looking for the car to get back into to go back to his home, I believe.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  But that didn’t stop me from walking up to him.

ALEX:  Nope.

BOBBY:  And saying, hey, Keith!

ALEX:  And, and I have to admire that he, he did not miss a step. He didn’t slow down.

BOBBY:  Nope.

ALEX:  It was kind of just an implied like walk with me. The car was act was pulling up at–

BOBBY:  It’s like a mound visit. It’s like when- catch her comes and meets the pitcher halfway. They walk back to the mountain together, that’s what Keith Hernandez and I did.

ALEX:  Exactly. And I by all accounts, I mean, I was able to witness this interaction. He seemed respectful in the, in the seven or eight words that were exchanged.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think I said, “Hey, Keith!” And he said, “Hey!” And I said, “I’m a big Mets fan!”

ALEX:  As, as one does.

BOBBY:  What else do you say to Keith Hernandez? What should I have said? I’m a niche leftist, slightly successful baseball podcaster, check me out. Should I have grabbed Keith Hernandez his phone and subscribe to the Tipping Pitches?

ALEX:  It’s really unfortunate neither of us actually had Tipping Pitches merch or, or stickers on our persons.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Because that would have been the moment. Hey, Keith, I have a gift for you.

BOBBY:  This was the chance to go mainstream.

ALEX:  It really was.

BOBBY:  However, a couple of years ago, when the New York Metropolitans SNY booth. They had a conversation about unionizing the miners. You’ll remember, between Gary Cohen and Ron Darling, you know who was absent? Keith Hernandez, not sure how you would take into that conversation.

ALEX:  Yep!

BOBBY:  Not sure. Hey, Keith not to get political but unionize the miners, dude.

ALEX:  That whole rest stop just felt like a fever dream. Like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –I still am–

BOBBY:  [10:54] like Hotel California.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  We might still be at the rest stop doing this podcast.

ALEX:  Exactly. He turned into this forever just walking to his car.

BOBBY:  Keith Herna- there’s a greater than 25% chance that Keith Hernandez saw saluting and taking a photo with the Joseph R. Biden rest stop sign.

ALEX:  Do you think that, that would have heightened his respect for us?

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  I don’t think that he would have saluted the sign with us if that’s what you’re asking.

ALEX:  If it was the Ronald Reagan rest stop or did have heightened his respect for us?

BOBBY:  I think, now we’re talking. Now we’re talking. Okay, let’s talk about, let’s talk about Nats Park. You’ve never been?

ALEX:  I’ve never been.

BOBBY:  First impressions?

ALEX:  Great vibe. Great experience. I, you know, let’s start at the, let’s start at the beginning. So you walk, you walk right in. It’s kind of it’s kind of nice. You can like walk right off the street into the stadium, kind of into that, that centerfield area is open. The gates are right there. We, we took public transit there, it was, it was very easy. And overall, it was a really, really lovely experience. I really, I enjoyed that concessions. I actually have to say, that may be the most I’ve paid for a beer at a ballpark.

BOBBY:  Really? How much did you pay? You know what, you know what, I’ll say about the concessions. They don’t do a good job of telling you how much you’re about to pay. I wouldn’t looked at my credit card statement today. And I was like, that is what I paid for that, 16.75, okay, yup!

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, my beer was like $18 or $19.

BOBBY:  Oh my God!

ALEX:  Which for like a, for Goose Island IPA that felt slightly steep. Like I, I would be able to buy almost two six packs at, at the bodega around the corner from me.

BOBBY:  Which is also marked up.

ALEX:  Right. Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I mean, you have to factor in that in order to keep our, our great capital clean and, and safe, and beautiful. That you just got to pay a little extra, will DC tax for your Goose Isla- Island IPA?

ALEX:  Well, I can only assume that my money will be funding the incoming Juan Soto extension.

BOBBY:  This is the future that Joe Biden wants? No, your money will be funding, better revenue numbers to put on the piece of paper, the memorandum of agreement when the Lerners sell the Nationals. Which is something that we learned just today that they are interested in doing, according to a Washington Post report. Do you think that it benefits the Lerners more or less? Do you think like, do you think they would have been better off dropping this story before the season? Or do you think that now fans are like yeah, the team is pretty bad. Maybe they should sell it.

ALEX:  It’s a little hard to say, they had, just a couple of years ago, said steadfastly that they would never sell the team as long as they were alive.

BOBBY:  Breaking News.

ALEX:  This is Breaking News. Can someone check on Ted Lerner?

BOBBY:  Be careful how much you talk about that, because he’s one of the older owners.

ALEX:  I know. It’s kind of tough, because there was, there was obviously a lot of crowing about the financial woes of Major League Baseball over the course of the offseason. So like, when is, when is the right time to drop that you’re about to cash out.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  They purchased the team for a measly $450 million. And the franchise valuation stands at around 2 billion right now.

BOBBY:  That’s more than 450.

ALEX:  That is, that is a little bit more. Yes.

BOBBY:  So do you think that, do you think that Rob Manfred didn’t want them to leak that they were interested in selling the team? To draw attention to how much money they were about to make. Like return on investment from their purchase price? I’m just trying to understand the calculus of why this would come out 4 days into the season.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Seems like weird timing. And obviously I don’t want to put too much stock into the fact fact that this is when it comes out. Maybe this just happens to be it’s tax season. And the Lerners are like, we want to reassess our financial situation.

ALEX:  Right. They looked at their bottom line as, as I do every Sunday evening and said, oh shit! I got to dial it back.

BOBBY:  Yeah, or, or maybe just they’ve been looking into this for months, but because the, the distractions of the lockout or whatever. I don’t really know, the state of MLB ownership is super weird. Because, a partially, partially because of what you said about the Lerners, I wouldn’t have pegged them to be what they have said themselves. I wouldn’t have pegged them to be one of the people looking to cash out. One of the ownership groups looking to cash out. They are among the more active and present owners in Major League Baseball. They also, you know, to their credit, put a decent amount of resources into the team when they were making their World Series push. Now, there’s a lot to dislike about the Lerners and the way that they’ve owned the Washington Nationals too. Namely, never shelling out for the top top contracts. So the cynic in me says, they don’t want to have to deal with another round of bad PR. The way that they did when they let Bryce Harper walk again with Juan Soto. But that’s just the general cynic in me. That’s actually the optimist in me. Because here comes Steve Cohen, baby. Future New York met Juan Soto. Let it sink in.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We’re less than 15 minutes into the pod. I’m already fantasized about Juan Soto being on the Mets.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think Steve’s presence may have been too much for them.

BOBBY:  Wow. Can’t take the heat, get out of the NL East?

ALEX:  Yep, pretty much. Who swoops in now? Just one, Jeffery Preston Bezos make a push for it?

BOBBY:  The listeners don’t know this, but you had to just stop. pause, and look up Jeff Bezos’ middle name.

ALEX:  [16:51]

BOBBY:  The commitment to birth certificate accuracy for Jeff Bezos, here on Tipping Pitches, I appreciate that.

ALEX:  Sorry. I should have said Jeffery Preston Bezos born Jeffery Preston Jorgenson.

BOBBY:  Bezos is not his real last name.

ALEX:  No. Well, okay. To be fair, it was his mother got divorced from Bezos’ biological father. And his mother married Miguel Bezos. And I guess Mike, henceforth adopted, Jeff Bezos and, and–

BOBBY:  [17:27]

ALEX:  –legally changed his surname.

BOBBY:  Okay, no ulterior motives here. He just didn’t think that Bezos sounded easier.

ALEX:  Right. He was like, I need to have like a weird letter in there.

BOBBY:  It’s an interesting question, who buys the Nats? I doubt that Bezos will buy the Nats.

ALEX:  Right. I mean–

BOBBY:  He might buy the entire league, or is there, I was thinking about this earlier, because people were talking about Bezos coming in and, and buying the Nats. Which would be the ultimate bad beat for Nats fans. We just got the richest owner and, in baseball history, one of the richest owner in sports history. And then Jeff Bezos comes in and he’s worth 100x with Steve Cohen’s worth. Incredibly bad beat that would be for us, for us sickos over here in Queens. Is there, is there like a rule about a conflict of interest, if you own streaming rights for the games, but you’re also an owner? Because I can’t think of any owners right now, who own any stakes in any of the broadcasting companies that currently put Major League Baseball games on TV. However, Ted Turner for the Braves did broadcast a lot of games for a long time.

ALEX:  Well, I thought had thought that many teams had financial stakes in the RSNs.

BOBBY:  I guess that’s true. Yeah, the Mets own SNY.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But it’s, it’s just feels a little bit like a further reach if you’re the owner of Amazon and Amazon as the exclusive rights holder to streaming Major League Baseball games–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –you know, which–

ALEX:  And, and–

BOBBY:  –is a possibility in a couple of years.

ALEX:  And you also own the, the primary newspaper of, of your locale that covers the team.

BOBBY:  This just an Alex and Bobby discovered monopolistic behavior on the podcast.

ALEX:  Is he allowed to own both of those?

BOBBY:  Wait, he can’t do that. That doesn’t seem right. Somebody do something about this.

ALEX:  I will say, I think billionaires owning monopolies surrounding the entire exhibition, and consumption of the sport would make it easier for the government to step in and just expropriate at all, right? Like you’ve fewer, fewer targets to go after.

BOBBY:  So you’re saying it has to get worse before it gets better?

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  Any chance that the government just does this anyway with the Nats you know, as a little patriotism?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Here’s a question, here’s a question. Joe Biden executive order, we will be expropriating the Washington Nationals tomorrow, obviously, emergency pod number one.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Number two, do you become a Nationals fan? Just because of that?

ALEX:  Are you saying that Joe Biden is announcing on behalf of the country that, that the United States government now owns it?

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  Or Joe Biden himself now?

BOBBY:  No, no, no, no, no. Joe Biden executive order from the Office of the President of the United States, says, the United States now owns the Washington Nationals. Are you in that span now?

ALEX:  I, I don’t even want to think about that possibility. Like all of a sudden–

BOBBY:  There’s 21 privately owned teams and one that’s just owned by the US government?

ALEX:  Right. All, I mean, all of a sudden that instead of that $19 IPA funding are just lining Ted Lerner’s pockets. It’s like funding drone strikes in the Middle East.

BOBBY:  Ohh, wow! You went with drone strikes? I was gonna go with funding textbooks.

ALEX:  Is that what you think the United States government does?

BOBBY:  Yeah, I’m doing PR for the good old USA right here.

ALEX:  Jesus. I mean, it doesn’t even matter because it’s not like Joe Biden would be able to ever do that, you know.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like, like he can’t even pass–

BOBBY:  He would need, he would need the house and the, the President’s office, as well as the Senate.

ALEX:  Right. Maybe you do it through reconciliation? I don’t really know how that works. I just thought maybe.

BOBBY:  it’s just a worst that I’ve heard. All right. Well, food for thought, food for thought. You consider, I mean, you’re looking for a new team.

ALEX:  Right, kind of I am right now, yeah.

BOBBY:  I’m just giving you some options.

ALEX:  I say–

BOBBY:  I’m just giving you a path.

ALEX:  Right. I, the, the easy, the easy joke here is, I think Walgreens should swoop in and just tie everything together, right? Like–

BOBBY:  Right, because of the logo.

ALEX:  Because, because of the logo. Famously, I don’t know–

BOBBY:  [21:58] logo.

ALEX:  –if, I don’t know if you’ve heard about this.

BOBBY:  Looks kind of like the Walgreens logo.

ALEX:  Looks a little bit like the Walgreens W, yep!

BOBBY:  I said we moved the Nats again, get them out of DC. Where are we going to put them?

ALEX:  Drain the swamp, am I right?

BOBBY:  Okay, speaking of baseball teams at the greater, Washington, DC metropolitan area. The Baltimore Orioles, Alex. They put out a press release just in time for Tipping Pitches today, just in time. I’m really glad that did this.

ALEX:  I’m glad we waited until Monday to record this.

BOBBY:  Yeah, yeah. Well, when were we going to record it? We were too busy making a pilgrimage to the Joseph R. Biden rest stop.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  They put out a press release, really excited, just really excited about the fact that they’re going to get $1.2 billion in public funding from the state of Maryland. I think they thought this was gonna go over well. I think they thought they were like, people would just be like, oh, great, $1.2 billion, this place is gonna look so much better after this. And within minutes, it was released in our circles of Twitter. Pretty roundly-mocked for doing a victory lap over taking taxpayer money?

ALEX:  Right. Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  To build around Camden Yards, which is already in, you know, a nice looking ballpark, which is relatively new. And I think the, the third element of this is that the Orioles are just so bad that any amount of public funding getting directed towards them. Not that there should, there’s ever an instance where there should be public funds but towards the team. But of all the teams that have earned it, it’s not the Orioles.

ALEX:  No. Right. So this is gonna go towards, quote, “reinvestment and reimagination” of the Camden- Camden Yards–

BOBBY:  [23:39] to reimagined.

ALEX:  –sports complex? Yeah, I do have to, there’s a lot in this press release that talks about the last decade or so. last 30 years, really, of the Baltimore Orioles franchise, the various successes? Question mark.

BOBBY:  Here’s why we should get $1.2 billion.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Cal Ripken Jr.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. it’s, it’s–

BOBBY:  It’s worth 1.1 billion alone, at least.

ALEX:  Yes, yeah. They go to great lengths to point out the, the more than $10 billion in economic tourism impact generated by the Orioles.

BOBBY:  Economic tourism impact.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  We’re just saying things now.

ALEX:  You’re just, we’re just using words.

BOBBY:  Any words can go together. If you say them together in a press release.

ALEX:  They do point out that they were the winningest team in baseball from 2012 to 2016.

BOBBY:  They love that is that.

ALEX:  A great span of five years. I am, would they care to share what happened in the next five years?

BOBBY:  Oh, the next five years. I thought you were gonna say what they cared us to share what happened in the 2015 AL Wild Card Game. And I was gonna say, please, please show some respect to Mets Manager Buck Showalter.

ALEX:  No, there’s, there’s a lot in here about their, quote, “rebuilding” of the team in–

BOBBY:  Right, in number one farm system, the state of the art, new player development.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And facilities, they talk a lot about that.

ALEX:  I think they just, they mentioned like incorporating analytics, that’s what their scouting, I guess?

BOBBY:  Cutting edge, I’m glad to know that you weren’t doing that before. Here’s my favorite part of the statement. On the entertainment front. We followed up hosting one iconic music artist in Billy Joel before the pandemic. With an equally legendary performing force in Paul McCartney, as we aggressively remake the national image of Baltimore. Wow. So they want to rebuild the national image of Baltimore into Billy Joel and Paul McCartney concerts? Certainly a take. An Oriole Park at Camden Yards as a must play destination for every world class tour and marquee event. Olivia Rodrigo comes in rid of Baltimore Park.

ALEX:  Marquee spelled just wrong, also.

BOBBY:  Oh, you’re right. Yeah, Marquee that was with two E’s.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  I should give them credit, right? They obviously spend the almost the entire press release, talking about things that may- like it ranges from creative interpretations of the Orioles history to just like, outright lies. But here’s what they have to say about how the money will be used.

BOBBY:  I’m ready. I’m coming into this with an open heart. I’m willing to be won over by this Peter Angelos.

ALEX:  That’s it. That’s what they have to say about it. That’s everything.

BOBBY:  That was a good bit. That was good. Good job. Good joke.

ALEX:  I don’t know, man. I, I don’t even know how you take this sort of thing seriously.

BOBBY:  No, we are such a failed society, like we have failed so badly. It’s not just this either and it’s not just baseball. Like we didn’t even have a chance to talk about because this happened outside of baseball, it also happened at a really important time for like CBA negotiations. But you know, what the Buffalo Bills got from the city of Buffalo and the state of New York? $6 billion in public funding. That is six, with nine zeros after it. From you and I, New York State residence. That is nuts! Like, I mean, I do know how we got here, but I just don’t know how we got here. I don’t know how this is any, anywhere near the politically acceptable window of reality?

ALEX:  Yeah, absolutely. Like they, they go out of their way to note that, you know, this success in the mid 2010s is a quote, “Remarkable achievement under Baseball’s unique system. That challenges teams from small and middle markets, in in ways that no other sports league does.”

BOBBY:  Now we’re just making up market sizes.

ALEX:  So, so you can receive $1.2 billion from the state.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  And just you’re still a small market? Small or mid market?

BOBBY:  I love that they’re trying to invent the middle class, but for Baseball market. Like the middle class did so much for, you know, politicians just at all. And so now baseball owners like why don’t we try that? We’re a middle market team.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Pretty soon the Yankees are gonna be like, we’re just upper middle class market or upper middle market, you know.

ALEX:  Right. The Orioles are just waiting for that money to trickle down, you know?

BOBBY:  Oh, boy. I love that, that’s one of my favorite parts of this too, is is the incredible self-own it is to say that you’re working with less resources. And that you can’t possibly win against all of these, like, against all of these big bad superpowers. And yet, you’re also getting $1.2 billion from the state. It’s like when we talked about with John Fisher. how his underlying argument was trying to heist the A’s out of Oakland, is that it’s not profitable to play baseball in Oakland. And yet, they’re going to get, you know, they’re going to get $12 billion or they’re going to spend $12 billion on building a new ballpark. TBD how much of that is coming from the City of Oakland. But some of it for infrastructural, you know, repairs and development around Howard Terminal. And you’re you’re saying all of that, plus all of the national money that we know that teams get. Plus the local money, which you know, you could make very profitable. Because San Francisco is doing it just across the bay and it’s all about TVs, which I don’t know if you know this, but you don’t actually have to be in person to watch the game on TV. Plus the billions of dollars that you have inherited from the Gap, the Gap, you inherited that money from the Gap. And all of those built in advantages, you still can’t make baseball profitable in Oakland? That just means you’re just bad, you’re just a bad businessman.

ALEX:  Yes. There’s a lot of telling on yourself that goes on with MLB owners.

BOBBY:  Yes. And that is what this statement by the Angelos family is, to me.

ALEX:  The last thing that I’ll say about this, and then we can, I don’t know if you peek, we talked about actual baseball if you want? Or we haven’t really watched much actual baseball. So–

BOBBY:  We spent a lot of time watching the Mets and Nationals.

ALEX:  Right, yeah, there you go. Is the way it was announced this thing that they’re so very proud of was, like, buried in a link, you know. Like the tweet that they sent out, was just a message to our fans. Like, I had no idea what was going to be behind that link. You know, I was, I was like, this might be early 2000s era like, you know, shock site–

BOBBY:  [31:03] trolled.

ALEX:  Right, you got rickrolled or something or something much–

BOBBY:  Like something jumps out at the screen and yells at you?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  A message to our fans, I wish this was the Mets who did this, because then it would have been a message to our fans and the link would have been .medium.com. Never forget. Okay, do you wanna talk about Baseball?

ALEX:  Yeah!

BOBBY:  I, I have a couple of things to say about the, the past few days in Baseball the past week in Baseball. But I’ll let you go first. Anything that really jumps out at you? From the first four games of the Major League Baseball season?

ALEX:  Yeah, there, there are a few things that have really, really excited me.

BOBBY:  How do you want to package the segment? Like what sports radio? Why do you want to do like early overreactions? Speed round from the first week of Major League Baseball.

ALEX:  Oooh yeah.

BOBBY:  Top 10 things that I loved from the first four games. The players that you need to pick up in your fantasy league. Which one? Just keep me going, I’m like a wheel, I’m spinning just stop me when you hear when you like.

ALEX:  Right. Maybe like a, like a over under and we just it’s just a betting segment–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –right?

BOBBY:  No, no.

ALEX:  Odds, odds that, Ke’Bryan Hayes.

BOBBY:  Goes to one Major League Baseball park is suddenly a sportsbook odds that Ke’Bryan Hayes is what? Because he’s hurt.

ALEX:  Is still on the team by the end of his newly-signed contract. Which was, which was like–

BOBBY:  [32:34] odds.

ALEX:  –yes. Solely done to just maybe like, indicate that they’re not completely not trying, right? It was like see we this is the biggest Baseball–

BOBBY:  [32:44] to which very tradable contract.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  We’ll see about that one.

ALEX:  Let’s see, biggest takeaways. Guardians Rookie outfielder Steven Kwan is Tony Gwynn?

BOBBY:  Good.

ALEX:  He’s a, he’s a real good player.

BOBBY:  Sounds like you’re, you, you’ve selected the early overreactions option. I love it.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Okay. Here’s mine.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Byron Buxton is gonna have a 15 more season.

ALEX:  That’s not even an overreaction. I’m here, I’m here for it. I’m on the MVP train.

BOBBY:  You’ve been on the Buxton MVP trade for like five years.

ALEX:  Right. At some point it’s gonna hit you know.

BOBBY:  That’s it. He’s been incredible so far. Joey Votto owns all social media. Man came on social media 10 days ago, and is already better than like everyone in or out of the baseball world.

ALEX:  Yeah. I’m, I’m forced to assume that this is the reason [33:36] Elon Musk backed out from being on Twitter’s board.

BOBBY:  He was afraid of bottom tower.

ALEX:  Because he was too intimidated.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s exactly right. We dodged the bullet with that Elon Musk thing.

ALEX:  Like we’re not even gonna talk about that.

BOBBY:  That would have been really–

ALEX:  Wow!

BOBBY:  –just if Twitter just ended. I mean, I’m not saying the podcast would be completely dead. Maybe it would be freeing in a way we wouldn’t have to tweet. Just do the podcast. On second thought, Elon, come back, come back to the board, maybe buy the Nats while you’re at it.

ALEX:  Let’s see Seth Beer with a walk off home run on National Beer Day. It’s a man after my own heart.

BOBBY:  Hunter Greene throws hard. And it’s really good, really incredible. I actually don’t know if he’s good. I don’t know if any young pitcher is good.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Even most highly touted pitching prospects. It’s impossible to tell.

ALEX:  Well, I mean, that’s the thing, right? There’s no such thing as a pitching prospect. That is, that is the adage.

BOBBY:  Pitching prospects are way more fun than, than hitting prospects though. Because every hitting prospect who comes up is, is bad, for a little while, most of the time. Even Mike Trout was bad when he came up. I have a lot of not actual money but you know, clout riding on the fact that Jarred Kelenic isn’t actually bad, but he might be bad. But then when a pitching prospect comes up, you pretty immediately see why they were ranked how they were ranked.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You see the stuff right away. It’s no, the stuff is no worse than it will be two to three years from now. It’s just command and how they use it as the thing that really changes. Like you grow more mature and you know when to use what pitch and that kind of thing. But the electricity of a pitching prospects and and called up is some of the best shit that we have–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –in this game. And and Hunter Greene, I mean just blown people away with one or two up in the zone. That’s, that’s the good stuff right there.

ALEX:  Yeah. Well also, pitching prospects you can actually watch, right? Like there’s actually a decent chance that you will be able to watch them for at least–

BOBBY:  Couple of hours.

ALEX:  –half the baseball game. You know, like they are, they are the quarterback of baseball. And so you actually get to see them command the flow of things. And that’s much more fun than seeing a guy come up and go like–

BOBBY:  Rollover?

ALEX:  Yeah. 0 for 4 with a couple pop flies in his debut.

BOBBY:  Yeah. That’s why Wander’s debut was amazing. Because he was just spraying it around the field immediately.

ALEX:  Yep. It was like, Oh, this thing that everyone says you are the best at, you are.

BOBBY:  He’s 21.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  He’s 21.

ALEX:  Yep.

BOBBY:  That is five years younger than us.

ALEX:  Yeah. You want to know who’s, six years younger than us? Is Rōki Sasaki, the 20-year old–

BOBBY:  Had, that’s on my list too.

ALEX:  –who threw a 19 strike out perfect game in Japan.

BOBBY:  13 strikeouts in a row at one point.

ALEX:  Ridiculous! Kerry Wood could never.

BOBBY:  Except Kerry Wood did, what you’re talking about? That was–

ALEX:  An in 105 pitches.

BOBBY:  Like that’s like the stuff of myth.

ALEX:  Yeah. Like, how do you even–

BOBBY:  Was he just striking out everybody on three pitches? Because 105 pitches in 19 strikeouts, that’s, that’s 57 pitches right there of just the strikes required to get those strikeouts. That’s insane! My first thought, I hate that I’m this ethnocentric of a baseball fan. But my first thought was like, when he’s [37:04] Major League Baseball? I’ll just be honest. Like, he could say an MVP forever, that would be great.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  My first thought was like Mets please sign. I, Steve Cohen, go get him.

ALEX:  I think all the other NPV hitters are thinking the same thing–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –to be honest.

BOBBY:  Please, for the love of God. Yeah. Couple of things I have written down here, Alex. Carlos Rodon is going to probably win the Cy Young. Because he went to the Giants. And they’re going to somehow find a way to keep him perfectly healthy. And he was obviously great last year. And you know, he’s had a lot of problems with injuries that have affected that have, had something to do I would guess with his varying effectiveness throughout his career. But he’s, he’s always been, he’s always had an amazing he’s always had amazing stuff. He throws 98 from the left side. He has a wipeout slider. I’m like, how did the Giants just keep getting away with this?

ALEX:  Like the “Breaking Bad”, it’s just like–

BOBBY:  Yeah!

ALEX:  [37:58] for me.

BOBBY:  I was like Kevin Gausman is gone. I guess just bring back Carlos Rodon. Like, whatever. No big deal.

ALEX:  Yeah, I’m, I’m on board with it. I don’t really have strong feelings on him. But it was, it was fun watching him. It’s fun watching him in the playoffs the last couple years, I guess?

BOBBY:  That’s Mike Bauman’s guy.

ALEX:  Oh, yeah?

BOBBY:  Yeah, it goes Lance Lynn, number one. Big Mike Bauman, Orioles pitching prospect–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –number two, because the share name.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Right. But that’s pretty pride and joy of the Oriole way.

BOBBY:  Right, exactly.

ALEX:  That’s what $1.2 billion gets you.

BOBBY:  Bauman probably supports the $1.2 billion in public funding, if I know anything about him is that he thinks that we should take more public funding and give it to billionaires.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Carlos Rodon, number three. And Alek Manoah, number four, because he kind of looks like Lance Lynn.

ALEX:  I love that.

BOBBY:  Anything else for you?

ALEX:  Amazing news from down in St. Petersburg. They sold out opening day! It could be done.

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Wow. All the fake news media saying that they’re just no real Rays fans.

ALEX:  Right. I, I should mention that it’s because they didn’t open the upper deck. But you know what, that’s, these are just, these are just, this is just counting magic, you know. This is what baseball teams are good at, is just moving the decimal points around.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Moving the goalposts, moving their teams, how the city like.

BOBBY:  This is like that scene from (500) Days of Summer, where it’s like expectations versus reality. It’s like the rosy, everybody’s really excited on the expectation side. We’re all having fun down here at Section 110. And then the reality is the camera pans out.

ALEX:  Zoom out.

BOBBY:  There’s covers on the seats in Section 310. Really tough. I don’t even think that the amount of Nationals fans this weekend would have filled even the bottom row–

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  –of the stadium.

ALEX:  There’s probably–

BOBBY:  At least–

ALEX:  –more Mets fan.

BOBBY:  –at least, oh, I think definitely more Mets fans, I think definitely more Mets fans. Last thing, Alex, I’m still anti robo umps. However, if we develop robot umps that can figure out what the hell a balk is, they might get me, they might get me. It’d be like if Joe Biden was like, no, I’m putting in universal health care. Like, I might just be excited about voting for him.

ALEX:  Yes, this is the only possible way that they could pass the Turing test is here, you show them a balk, what is it?

BOBBY:  That, that, that is passing the Turing test, but also humans can’t do that.

ALEX:  Right. It’s so yeah.

BOBBY:  It’s like something beyond the Turing test.

ALEX:  That’s more like the, the singularity, right? That’s what it is.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  There we go.

BOBBY:  That is, okay, okay, we got there. We’ve wat- collectively watched enough sci-fi films between the two of us that we, we saw that joke out.

ALEX:  Yep, yep.

BOBBY:  Nice work. Okay, this concludes our speed round from the opening week of Baseball. I promise we will actually watch more Baseball by the next time we record. We were just you know, we were at games, so it was hard to watch other games at the same time. We’ll probably have thoughts about K-Rod, which we didn’t get a chance to watch either. The Michael Kay, Alex Rodriguez, ESPN Sunday Night Broadcast will have thoughts about Apple TV+. But currently I have no thoughts about any of those things except for the fact that it’s cool that our friend Hannah Kaiser was on the broadcast.

ALEX:  Yep. And you know, regardless of what you think of him, I think it’s cool that Jeff Passan came in with an absolute roast of Michael Kay. In his first 15 seconds on the broadcast. More more guests on broadcast should roast the broadcaster’s.

BOBBY:  Okay, let’s take a quick break and when we come back we have a few listener questions to get to.

[41:48]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  All right, Alex, your listener questions and we’re gonna close it out this week. First listener question comes from Joe. Do the blackout people also get mad when they can’t get wonton soup at Olive Garden? The product, local baseball games is available. Buy it, don’t buy it. Stop acting like the RSN model is something the league is obligated to change for you precious flower. Just kidding. That wasn’t a question that we got in the mailbag. Alex, that was Joe Sheehan having a terrible take about blackouts on the night before the baseball season started. You know what I did not do?

ALEX:  What?

BOBBY:  Log on to Twitter to defend blackouts the night before the Baseball season started. Did you do that?

ALEX:  I thought about it. I did think about it.

BOBBY:  Right. You are going to do it from your burner. Because that’s what you really think.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  What you really think is, do people get mad when they can’t get wonton soup at Olive Garden?

ALEX:  What?! What an analogy!

BOBBY:  I kind of respect the analogy.

ALEX:  I do.

BOBBY:  Aside from what he is trying to use it for. Sometimes I do want wonton soup while I’m eating another cuisine.

ALEX:  Right. Well, and I’m notably this very weekend, we, we were at a, a brunch for a Mexican brunch restaurant–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –that had also, I guess just recently opened up a sushi counter?

BOBBY:  That’s right.

ALEX:  So at this point, I kind of, I am mad, I can’t get wonton soup at Olive Garden.

BOBBY:  Thanks for submitting that question to the entire world, Joe Sheehan. Okay, the real questions now, Alex. This first question comes from listener Coco, and an email. Coco asks, “Did you read the article in The New York Times about nationalizing baseball? I really liked the way that you guys have talked about it the past few years, especially in that episode in the spring of 2020. But this feels so wrong. Obviously, it’s The New York Times, so I shouldn’t expect much. But I haven’t heard anyone else talk about it besides you. So I was wondering about your takes.” Alex, did you read The New York Times article about nationalizing baseball?

ALEX:  I did.

BOBBY:  What did you think?

ALEX:  Well, you thought it was a parody. So let’s set the scene that way.

BOBBY:  When I first read it, I didn’t think it was a parody. And then I saw someone suggest it was a parody. And then I was like, that makes way more sense. I kind of want it to be a parody, please.

ALEX:  It’s, it’s the kind of argument, you know, that, I mean, again, we were behind it. But we dis- disavow this take.

BOBBY:  Right. You’re making us look bad in New York Times.

ALEX:  Right. It includes choice cuts like Mike Trout’s $426 million contract is effectively being paid by millions of grandparents who just want to tune in to Anderson Cooper or Antiques Roadshow.

BOBBY:  Okay. See this is the type of flowery language that it’s, it’s not wrong, but I don’t know what your point is. Why not right? Arte Moreno’s profits are being paid by a bunch of grandparents who want to watch Antiques Roadshow and Anderson Cooper. That’s actually much more accurate.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Mike Trout contract is being paid because he plays baseball and is good at it.

ALEX:  Well, and there’s very little in here. There may be nothing in here about anything coming close to historical precedents for this, right? Which we’ve discussed here on this show before about what it might actually look like to nationalize the sport, or at least, you know, have a city government try and snap up a team.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And and it’s not like that has never happened before. But I am not sure that the argument in favor of nationalizing Baseball is broadcasts would be carried exclusively by C-SPAN. Like that’s, that’s–

BOBBY:  Get pumped!

ALEX:  –your elevator pitch?

BOBBY:  Get pumped! C-SPAN here we come! We now interrupt this perfect game being thrown by Shohei Ohtani because Ted Cruz yelled at someone on the floor of the Senate.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. I will say, they probably have the infrastructure for it, right? They do broadcast the Congressional Softball game, every year. So–

BOBBY:  Let Shohei Ohtani played in the Congressional Softball game cowards. Well, it’s actually funny that you say that we’ve talked about this before. We get a question from Destin. Who says, “You guys have talked about teams being on publicly by the city or the state. Could you explain briefly or at length, how this would work? Where the money comes from, to spend on players? Is there a board that the team would answer to etc?” I would say that most efficiently for the purposes of being in the second half of this podcast, we will link below to the episode that we did exclusively about this, it’s called, “Could Fans Own a Team?” We did a way back in the first half of 2020, if I’m not mistaken. And we talked about the different models through which Baseball could be publicly owned, or owned by fans. I think we ultimately landed on municipal ownership would be the most moral, I guess?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Being owned–

ALEX:  And probably the most effective, right?

BOBBY:  The most effective and the most reasonable, being owned by fans is an interesting question. Because how much of it is really being owned by fans? Versus how much of it is a PR coup? Like what the Green Bay Packers have done.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  It’s much more common than like the lower levels of European Soccer for fans to actually own shares of the team than anything in America. There’s not much precedent for it here. So I think all of the questions that Destin poses are good questions that we would have to decide before we actually went through with nationalizing the sport. I mean, where would the money come from? The same place that the money comes from now. It would just the profit would go somewhere else. Namely, back into the state.

ALEX:  Which it’s really good!

BOBBY:  Yeah. It’s just that, we just don’t have any, like, there are very few examples of things that are owned, publicly owned, that are this profitable. And that’s my intention, call of the things that are this profitable. Got scooped up by the Robber Barons pretty early on, just like baseball did!

ALEX:  Yeah. I also, I have to say, when it comes to ultimately finding money in the coffers to pay for things, the government is usually does a decent job of being able to wrangle–

BOBBY:  Yeah, dawg.

ALEX:  –that all together.

BOBBY:  You thought Competitive Balance Tax discourse was bad, way to get to debt ceiling discourse for the Yankees payroll.

ALEX:  Jesus.

BOBBY:  Just internalize that for a sec.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Nope, sorry. We can’t sign Aaron Judge to an extension, you know why? We’re about to default on our bonds.

ALEX:  Yep. Yeah, inflation was–

BOBBY:  US [49:00]

ALEX:  –making it really tough to compete.

BOBBY:  Because Russia started a war in Ukraine. I think it’s safe to say, I mean, this is a conversation that we’ve never really fully gotten into. But if Baseball was nationalized, I think they would be a good argument for the players to make less.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s not the most popular argument amongst the players. But guess what? It would have brought appeal across baseball fans, apparently.

ALEX:  Right. Well, and the argument as it stands now, for players to make what they do, right. Is that they are the labor that is creating the billions and billions of dollars that are coming into the sport, right? And–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –better they have it than the already billionaires who run the sport and are not actually producing anything. But if you could make the case that those profits would go towards funding education–

BOBBY:  Health care.

ALEX:  –health care. Yeah. Now is that where the money–

BOBBY:  It’s such a 30 conversation because it’s impossible to know like, what, what form it would take? Would they just become all of a sudden become like, civil servants baseball players? What would that do to Baseball development? Is the reason baseball players become so good and, and devote so much time and money and effort to this because the ultimate payout will be so much. What will that do to the product 100 years from now? These are not questions that you and I have the answers to.

ALEX:  No! Absolutely not. We’re, we’re just asking questions.

BOBBY:  We’re just sitting in an apartment in Brooklyn just theorizing about what the leftist future looks like. Let’s move on, Alex. Next question comes from Christina, on Twitter. Christina asks, “What was your favorite walk up song you heard from both the Mets and Nats this weekend?” Christina also asks, “Not opening weekend related, when is the Tipping Pitches playlist dropping?” Tipping Pitches playlist already exists. Throw that in the description in the show notes, Alex, please.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Favorite walk up song you heard? You know, I gotta say, don’t think I could tell you, it’s a single walk up song that played this weekend.

ALEX:  Yeah?

BOBBY:  Usually I pay attention to these things. However, I pay attention less when I’m at a ballpark. Other than Citi Field. I want to know what the Mets walk up songs are. I don’t really care what the other team walk up songs are.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Plus I was there, you know, they’re with you, [51:28] make friends.

ALEX:  Right, it is.

BOBBY:  We were, we were loved ones.

ALEX:  We were discussing, right? We were enjoying each other’s company.

BOBBY:  Holding a Socratic seminar in between every at bat. But the ethics of Major League Baseball.

ALEX:  Right. We were calculating win probability, like all the, all of the above. Though, the one that stood out to me if only because it arguably defined the rest of our night was one All The Small Things by blink-182.

BOBBY:  Ohhh! That was a walk up song? I just thought you started singing that. I’m serious.

ALEX:  Knowing me, it may have been the case. But I believe it was a walk up song. And actually the reason that–

BOBBY:  Oh, I felt starting to come into focus. Now the guys on the subway who are also singing it?

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  I get it now.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, I will say, so that, so that–

BOBBY:  All those $19 beers going straight to the head, I guess.

ALEX:  The Friday night game was broadcast on Apple TV, right? And a couple things there, one–

BOBBY:  Apple TV+, again. Are you ever going to respect–

ALEX:  Jesus!

BOBBY:  –Tim Cook?

ALEX:  Yeah. Steve Jobs is rolling in his grave.

BOBBY:  Seriously, he’s gonna hunt your ass.

ALEX:  So a couple things, on, on the broadcast itself, I actually saw that they were putting the players walk up songs in the bottom right hand corner when the players came up. And I think it was like a little, it was like an Apple Music plug, you know, and had the little like logo there, which, you know, once again–

BOBBY:  I mean, it’s not the most offensive thing that they’ve put on a broadcast. Nope!

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, insert 30-minute rant about sports betting. Right–

BOBBY:  So bad.

ALEX:  –right here.

BOBBY:  Somehow exponentially worse than it was just one year ago.

ALEX:  But, but tying into that they actually made playlists, once again, on Apple Music, featuring the walk up songs of each of the teams. And I’ll say, I think that’s, that’s good.

BOBBY:  That’s a good idea.

ALEX:  It is a good idea.

BOBBY:  Okay!

ALEX:  That’s my answer. That’s–

BOBBY:  Your answer is All The Small Things?

ALEX:  Yeah. I, it spawned a listening session of multiple blink-182 songs. I felt like I was 14 again. It’s a simpler time.

BOBBY:  I’ll adopt that as my answer as well.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  I don’t think that there was a better song that played that all the small things?

ALEX:  I actually don’t think so.

BOBBY:  Okay, final question this week. This comes from Rob, who is also a hockey fan. Rob says that he’s not sure if we are following the hilarious situation unfolding in the NHL right now. The Arizona Coyotes are going to be playing in a 5000 seat arena at the Sun Devils campus. That’s Arizona State University for the next few seasons. There are many reasons for this, but the gist is the city or county owns the stadium. And the team is a bad tenant, and has been kicked out. Rob wants to know, says I’m thinking about the MLB. Who’s wondering if we can foresee any situation where the MLB would tolerate a team playing in a 5000 person stadium on a university campus for a period of two to three seasons with no construction started on a new stadium. And if so, what team would have happened to? I think there’s an obvious answer to the second question, Alex. I hate to say it.

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  But I think it would be the–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –Oakland Athletics. The first question, I, I mean, I guess there is a world like an Armageddon world in which this happens to a team with a completely unforeseen circumstance. But no, I don’t think I could see a baseball team playing in a 5000 seat stadium. As cool as that might actually end up being. Big Rob would come through with the checkbook, the Major League Baseball checkbook. And he would, he would, I don’t know, potentially, in a corrupt manner, lean on the local government to not let this happen.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, I, I will say we saw something–

BOBBY:  That’s parody, by the way, I’m not accusing Rob Manfred of doing anything corrupt. No racketeering here, Alex. Unless there is, I don’t know, I don’t know if there is or not. This is just parody and joke.

ALEX:  Right. We saw something not entirely dissimilar from this in the COVID 19 pandemic, when the Blue Jays were forced to play at their Triple-A affiliate stadium in Buffalo, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And initially, they were limiting capacity to a relatively small number, I don’t know the exact number off the top of my head, right. But when they were 25% capacity, it was in the range of I believe, 6 or 7000 people later on in the year, it was bumped up to like 13, 15,000. Those were obviously different circumstances. The Blue Jays, I don’t think we’re considered a bad tenant.

BOBBY:  No, I don’t think so. I think Major League Baseball was considered a corrupt organization by the entire government of Canada. And that’s why they weren’t allowed to play in their normal stadium.

ALEX:  Right, right. I don’t think I, I certainly don’t think the league would allow this to happen again, without a viable alternative. Although I do think there are probably a handful of teams that would be okay with just breaking their leases in their current situations.

BOBBY:  I mean, then why not? They might get $1.2 billion if they do that.

ALEX:  Very well might!

BOBBY:  Just for free, or for the amount of bribes that it took to get it, hypothetically, as parody, as a joke–

ALEX:  Yup.

BOBBY:  –on a podcast.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  I think you’re right. And, honestly, I’d be open to hearing an argument that it could be more fun from time to time. I don’t think that we should just make every MLB stadium just 5000 seats, and all of a sudden, like way more expensive and exclusive.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And you can actually go because the problem is that not enough people can go and have this experience in person as it currently stands. I don’t want to make that problem worse. But there was something kind of cool about the Field of Dreams game when there was just a few 1000 fans there. And I think that it just creates a different experience. And I’m not, I wouldn’t be mad at varying it. Switching it up, having playing some games here and there at stadiums that don’t just look like the mega amphitheater vibe that we get from every stadium–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in Major League Baseball right now.

ALEX:  Right. Being able to see baseball and not be forced to sit in the nosebleeds would be kind of cool. Even if they were exhibition games. Like I don’t even need to see a meaningful June or you know, August baseball game between the Mets and the Phillies. In a tiny ass stadium, I’m happy to, to go there and see one in March or, or something like that. So I don’t know, I don’t, I don’t hate it.

BOBBY:  Just one thing that comes to mind, when you say doing it as an exhibition game or doing it as a one off during the regular season is probably about a year ago or 18 months ago, on an episode of RTC2, CC was talking about how he wants them to play one or two games or one series a year at Hinchcliffe Stadium in Paterson, New Jersey. Which was one of the original Negro Leagues stadiums. It’s where the New York black Yankees played. And it’s being restored right now. And that is like an option that it could host baseball games, once again. That kind of thing would be incredibly cool. It just has to be considered.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Can’t be by accident because you were a bad tenant. I don’t think that that would be good for the league. But there are actually ways to do this in an interesting manner, I think.

ALEX:  Yeah, there are ways to actually make it an opportunity to expand the game to markets that maybe don’t actually have access to the game as it currently stands. Now, is the league interested in expanding into markets that don’t have access to the sport? I don’t know! Should we ask Joe Sheehan?

BOBBY:  We’ve hit the, this podcast must self-destruct amount of saying Joe Sheehan’s name. So unless you have something else to add about this particular question, or to wrap up this episode of Tipping Pitches, that’ll do it for us this week. If you want to write in or even call in and leave a voicemail for us, you can get us at tippingpitchespod@gmail.com, tipping_pitches on Twitter. You can call us at 785-422-5881. I’m very excited that the Major League Baseball season is back, Alex. Anything else that you want to leave the people with?

ALEX:  The last thing I just want to leave the listeners with, some listeners, longtime listeners may know even short time listeners may know that–

BOBBY:  Medium time? Medium market listeners?

ALEX:  Right. If you, I mean, if you started listening before this past offseason.

BOBBY:  Upper middle market listeners? The upper middle term listeners, the middle term listeners, I’m just gonna power through it.

ALEX:  You can keep going. You may, you may have realized that there was no–

BOBBY:  Powering through is not your specialty. You just start laughing.

ALEX:  Yep, pretty much. I just lose my share of thought, it’s fine. There was no Three Up, Three Down this episode, you may have noticed this.

BOBBY:  Booo, hisss.

ALEX:  Yes, tomato, tomato, tomato. This was the segment where we talked in a little bit of a loose reform, about things that happened around the Baseball world, oftentimes off the field over the course of the past week. And, and it was usually the reason that episodes were more than 90 minutes long. So we, we are gonna bring it back in some fashion. But we’re still working on the format a little bit. So stay tuned for that.

BOBBY:  We’re just working on our craft.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  You know, we’re just in the lab trying to get better one pitch at a time.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  One day at a time.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  One bat at a time.

ALEX:  We may bring it back once we actually start watching baseball again, I think.

BOBBY:  Yeah. That’s, that’s safe to say. In lieu of that I’ll leave the listeners with a, with a little game. Since the topic of the Tipping Pitches playlist and music came up. If, if anyone is so inclined, I’d love to hear people try to guess who picked what songs each week. So if you’re a very dedicated listener, you find yourself writing in an email, you know, maybe just take a stab at it.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Who picked the songs last week? Take a stab on Twitter, whatever that might be. We appreciate everybody who dedicate so much time to listening to the silly podcasts. Thanks, everyone. We will catch you next week.

[1:01:58]

[Music]

[1:02:06]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodApril 12, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:baltimore orioles, peter angelos, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on What’s In the Box?	
The 2022 All-GIF Draft

Another season, another year of a storied Tipping Pitches tradition: the All-GIF Draft. Bobby and Alex preview the season by taking a look at which players will produce the best GIFs this year, bringing on Bradford William Davis, Stephen Hesson, Jake Mintz, Jordan Shusterman, Clinton Yates, Meg Rowley, and Shakeia Taylor as fellow evaluators. Long necks, tight pants, can’t lose.

Links:

Follow Bradford @BWDBWDBWD

Follow Stephen @TangoGolfKilo & Batting Around @BattinAround

Follow Cespedes Family BBQ @CespedesBBQ

Follow Clinton @clintonyates

Follow Meg @megrowler

Follow Shakeia @curlyfro

Songs featured in this episode: Taylor Swift — “Cruel Summer” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[Intro Music]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, my friend, you and I are gathered here today to continue the long standing tradition, previewing the Major League Baseball season. Without actually really having to make any predictions about who’s gonna be good at the Major League Baseball season. We are here to do The 2022 All-GIF Draft. Are you excited?

ALEX:  I’m so excited. This is, it’s such a joy to do this every year. And it’s really a joy to bring on folks in our orbit, whose opinions we love and respect to not actually talk about the things that they are professionally knowledgeable about. It’s wonderful.

BOBBY:  I’m glad you mentioned people sharing opinions that they are not actually professionally knowledgeable about. Because before we get into the fun of the GIF Draft, I wanted to do a little qui- quick check in on something else that we care a lot about, Alex. I wanted to, to check in with you about Alex Rodriguez.

ALEX:  Of course.

BOBBY:  I do have a clip that I would like to play for you and our friends, listeners.

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  That we all make a million dollars today we can go say, hey, let’s go on a vacation. Because hey, let me go buy a Rolls Royce. Let’s go buy a boat. My whole thing is I’ll be like, all right, guys, I want to take this million and buy assets, I don’t want to buy any liabilities. Because ultimately you’re gonna get an elevator. Either one is gonna go up or is gonna go down. Nothing’s gonna stay the same. You got to pay Uncle Sam. And then I believe in buying assets and we have to educate our community. What is the difference between an asset and a liability? When people look at their homes, they say this is an asset. Well, they’re wrong. Your home is a liability. My multifamily is an asset. Now you ask why? Number one, very simple: if something takes money out of your pocket every month, that’s a liability. If an asset puts money in your pocket, that’s an asset. And the more assets we can have and the less liability we can have. We’re going to be better off.

BOBBY:  I just thought this is very important to share with you just to get our headspace right. Heading into the Tipping Pitches, All-GIF Draft. We need assets, we don’t need liabilities. Do you agree?

ALEX:  I do agree. I agree that we are going to pay Uncle Sam first and foremost, right? That’s before drafting any GIFs we are going to send some gifts over to–

BOBBY:  Give Uncle Sam his cut right.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  We follow that through.

ALEX:  Right. I want you to flip your bat. I don’t even know where to begin with trying to break, like when I was watching this yesterday like every single line he says. it deserves–

BOBBY:  [3:15] better.

ALEX:  deserves its own deep cut, Bobby elevators.

BOBBY:  You’re gonna go up are you gonna go down?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  He’s right about this, he is right about this. It, in your professional opinion, Alex, as a, as a podcaster, which is what you and I are. Your professional opinion as a podcaster, our homes, liabilities or assets?

ALEX:  I think they are–

BOBBY:  Should you buy a home, Alex? Tell the people who are listening whether or not it’s a good investment to put a roof over their family’s heads.

ALEX:  He he, He’s not wrong in that. These days, it’s a liability for your wallet to actually own or or rent a home, right? Like he’s, he is right in a way that I don’t think that he’s right about. Because he thinks that, that you know everything in your life once again should be a- assets. Through which you can appreciate the increasing value, right? So, yeah, if a home is taking money out of your pocket every week, every month. It probably is a liability but maybe it’s because these things shouldn’t be taking or putting money into our pockets, Right?

BOBBY:  Didn’t this man, now correct me if I’m wrong, didn’t this man just purchase the Minnesota Timberwolves with financing? I presume he did not pay cash for the Timberwolves.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Nor was he going to pay cash for the Mets. So do you think that actually instead of Rob Manfred, turning down his- Rob Manfred and the Wilpons, turning down his bid to buy the Mets. Do you think that maybe A. Rod. turned away because he realized the Mets are a liability not an asset?

ALEX:  Well, we know that it’s not profitable to own a baseball team. In fact–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –it’s smarter to actually bet on the stock market, right? That’s actually a safer bet–

BOBBY:  Those are assets, not liabilities. It’s my understanding that those are liabilities as well.

ALEX:  The biggest thing here, I think that I do have to give A. Rod. [5:20] for is wanting to educate our community, right?

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm, uh-hmm.

ALEX:  Our community–

BOBBY:  Our community Tipping Pitches, yeah.

ALEX:  That is the, the community of multimillionaires, right? The community of billionaires, because–

BOBBY:  No, no, no, the community of multimillionaire landlords–

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  –you do not leave that part out. We don’t include anybody who doesn’t own a multifamily, a month just multifamily. He didn’t even say, like, apartment complex. He said–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –my multifamily–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –is an asset, pays for itself.

ALEX:  Right. Insert, insert JLo joke there. I mean, that’s the thing, right? Is none of us are free until we’re all free, right? And it really, it starts from the bottom with the landlords. So he’s putting in the work for, for our people.

BOBBY:  Okay, landlords of the world unite. Okay. Now that everybody’s on the same page about assets versus liabilities as it pertains to GIF drafting. I think that we should just get into it unless you, you want to make some, some World Series predictions beforehand?

ALEX:  I’m not gonna lie. I haven’t given it a ton of thought up until this point. In fact, you could argue I’ve given zero thought up until this point. Which is why I, I’ll, I’ll just say the the Blue Jays because that’s the team that I’m just kind of–

BOBBY:  Nice.

ALEX:  –defacto in on, right? I think, I think I’m mentioned this. It was maybe on last week’s podcast, or maybe it was just in a conversation between you and me. But uh, but–

BOBBY:  Every time we talked to each other, it’s a podcast recorded or not.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  Hey, man, how was work today podcast?

ALEX:  But yeah, I’m into that team. I, I can’t really, can’t really name why, exactly. I think it’ll help given the, the varying levels of vaccination status on players across the league, that they may have some home field advantage there. But overall, I’m just rooting for Matt Chapman to have nice things. Like really that’s kind of what it comes down to, you know.

BOBBY:  He has plenty of nice things. Eight other nice things in the lineup around him. Nice–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –nice bats in the lineup around him. I have Dodgers over Blue Jays. Do, do you want to make a selection as to who the Blue Jays will beat in the World Series? Or you just, you just going Blue Jays in a forfeit? Blake Treinen has convinced too many Dodgers players to untake the vaccine. And the Dodgers can’t feel the roster to play against Toronto in the World Series.

ALEX:  I Wanna go, Blue Jays over Braves.

BOBBY:  Oh God, why do you do this to me? We’re supposed to be friends. You’re predicting Atlanta to make it back to the World Series.

ALEX:  Okay, okay, fine. Blue Jays over Mets. Is that better?

BOBBY:  That hurts also. You watching me watch the Mets lose two World Series in the span of 10 years and then still choosing to be friends with me after that experience would be a really, really unbreakable bond. So maybe it’d be good for the podcast and [8:31]–

ALEX:  It’s true. I have seen you at your lowest–

BOBBY:  Absolute navier.

ALEX:  –the most emotionally vulnerable.

BOBBY:  Yes, just tears at Halloween parties. Okay, it’s Sunday The GIF Draft. We are going to bring in a wonderful and complete lineup of our good friends here at Tipping Pitches. That includes Bradford William Davis, Stephen Hesson of Batting Around. Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman of Cespedes Family BBQ. Clinton Yates, who works for a little company called ESPN. Meg Rowley Managing Editor FanGraphs. And last but not least, Shakeia Taylor. But before we bring all of those good friends in, Alex, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[9:13]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Okay, it’s The All-GIF Draft. Bradford William Davis is back, hi Bradford. Welcome–

BRADFORD:  Yo!

BOBBY:  –back to the Tipping Pitches Podcast, my friend. It’s great to see your face.

BRADFORD:  Pleasure to see y’all too.

BOBBY:  We’re so excited to have you back. This is your second year selecting in the GIF Draft and you were the most punctual and responding to us. So that means you are rewarded. We reward trying hard unlike baseball ownership. We reward that, so you have the first overall pick. And we will select after you for our team, you are now picking for the guest of Tipping Pitches team. And you are on the clock my good friend.

BRADFORD:  Okay, cool. [10:02]–

BOBBY:  How much, how much work did you put into the big board this year?

BRADFORD:  [10:05] I’m, I’m looking at like Jay Bilas wrote right now. Almost get into baseball players. I mean, I kind of, like, blew, my first take was Trevor Bauer.

BOBBY:  I was wondering–

BRADFORD:  [10:19]

BOBBY:  –mea culpa?

BRADFORD:  This is before I knew he was a criminal, you know, I just thought he was evil without a criminal, you know. So I- released in the back of the atmosphere, so apologies, apologies for that. But uhm, let’s see, as far as- I’m just gonna go, I’m gonna go with like, you know, people who I think are next now. But you never know, you never know, right? Like, uhm, but let’s go with Ronald Acuna Jr.

BOBBY:  Good one

ALEX:  That’s my pick.

BOBBY:  So Ronald has been selected multiple times, you obviously will need to wait a little while before it comes back from the ACL tear. But I do feel like by selecting him, when we missed so much of his time last year, you get a little bit of boost because people will be so happy to have him back. They’ll be like, Ronald is back. Baseball has missed him. Baseball needed him. What do you like about Ronald Acuna Jr, both as a player, but also as a GIF producer?

BRADFORD:  So, obviously, this is a slight article of faith that he has not lost any athleticism after a serious injury. But he’s young, he hits big beautiful home runs. He plays extremely hard, but he plays extremely cool. And I love, you know, and so I love watching him shot. I love the the style, and the energy and the strength that he plays the game of Baseball with. So I can’t wait to see, and I know he’s gonna be revved up too. You know, because of course he’s, you know, he is, he Ronald Acuna has missed Ronald Acunagreen. Yeah, you know, as you know–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  –perhaps more than–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  –we’ve missed him. So coming back to a team that’s defending the title, you know, I know he’s gonna be all out. Maybe not the first first game, but–

BOBBY:  Defend- defending a title? No, the Braves win the title last year. That didn’t happen.

BRADFORD:  Nope. Yeah, the Atlanta Baseball team, they were, they were be like, we’re pretty good.

BOBBY:  Congrats to the World Series Champion last year. Nobody! You do not–

ALEX:  Any circumstances have to hand it to the Atlanta Baseball team.

BRADFORD:  Sadly, this season did not end and on July 12 or so, you know, otherwise, things may be very different for your Mets. But uhm, but nope, they got a playoff six months, most years and and that’s why, you know, we’re gonna see, I think, you know, another fun team, you know. Obviously, the more for accounting reasons they, you know, they traded away, or in that trade away, rather, they let Freddie Freeman walk for Matt Olson. But hey, you know, he’s still Matt Olson. And, you know, the team’s gonna be winning a lot of games still. They, you know, they’re, they’re running it back, so to speak, with the, you know, with the team again, that won the World Series, but for the most part. And they’re adding, you know, and and but they’re, but they’re running it back with, you know, a inner circle MVP candidate in Ronald Acuña [13:07] so I yeah, I just think there’s gonna be you know, there’s gonna be lots of primetime raise games, lots of bright lights and lots of chances for you know, energetic crowd and energetic player to shine. So that’s why I pick Ronald Acuña.

ALEX:  I I feel like I mean, I I feel like this every day. Just that I can’t keep track of all of the young beautiful baseball players who I love to watch play baseball, right? So the fact that Acuña missed, effectively the second half of the season, last year, I think gave people, gave people’s attention a chance to kind of shift towards players like, like of Vlad. Jr, right? Obviously, Shohei Ohtani is always on on everyone’s mind, Juan Soto is another one. And I feel like Acuña kind of flies under the radar in a sense, just because he’s so consistently good and filled with swagger. Like there are a lot of players who might have, like, these kind of one off outbursts, and you’re like, Oh, I love to see that from, I don’t know, Tyler O’Neill. Cool, cool, like bat flip bro or whatever, right? But, but what you forget is like Acuña has this on every single at bat, right? Every single play, like you were saying he is like revved up and ready to go.

BRADFORD:  He’s five tool, I mean, wow, this is an amazing hitter, right? But he’s just wants to have the ball, you know, Fernando Tatís Jr., you know, all of course, a great complete player. But I would say that Acuña is better at the defensive, on the defensive end, more consistent and defensive end. And I get, you know, I guess before last summer we was injured from so that’s why I think you’ll ,you’ll see more opportunities for him, you know. He also apparently does not ride a motorcycle, which is really important [14:56].

BOBBY:  Really, really though.

BRADFORD:  I think that’s the that’s the X factor in this–

BOBBY:  This story has gone [15:01] on Tipping Pitches.

BRADFORD:  How do you [15:03] to work.

BOBBY:  So–

BRADFORD:  Uber.

BOBBY:  The way I think about Ronald is that he’s obviously an exceptional, exceptionally talented baseball player, just naturally gifted with all five tools. But then, you know, pretty quickly when he came up, you know, people would draw comparisons to Juan Soto, same division and I guess also Bryce Harper, too. But they would draw comparisons to Juan Soto, the other under 25, superstar outfielder in the NL East. And I, the thing that I like about Acuña is that I think he kind of took exception to that. Like all the stuff that they said that–

BRADFORD:  [15:39]

BOBBY:  –yeah, all this stuff that they said that Soto could do that Acuña couldn’t like, oh, Acuña strikes out a little bit too much. He hasn’t walked in, like Soto, he doesn’t have the, the plate vision of Soto. Acuña has doubled his walk rate since he got called up in 2018. Just just [15:54] he’s like the Terminator. Like you tell him to learn a skill. He’s like, sure, I’ll just be elite at that skill next year–

BRADFORD:  You know what–

BOBBY:  [16:01] talk shit.

BRADFORD:  –we’re talking about, we’re talking about. You know, Bobby, just jump off your plane. We talk about, like, GIF Draft, right? It’s a little different than, like, adding the WARs, you know what I mean?

BOBBY:  Yes.

BRADFORD:  Like, what, like, yes, Juan Soto is like a savant genius heir. But the chaos of being a little unwieldy, a little undisciplined.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  Makes Acuña a little more fun for me.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  You know–

BOBBY:  He’s great.

BRADFORD:  Like, yeah, so yeah, I’d say like, you know, Juan Soto was a 10% better hitter, but like, but that’s not what it’s about, you know. This isn’t, this is not about always guessing correct on the page in MLB: The Show–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  –you know, it’s about swinging off your heels.

ALEX:  Right.

BRADFORD:  And still hitting a triple.

BOBBY:  Yeah, no mother fuckin’ picture while you’re rounding second base.

BRADFORD:  Yes, yes.

ALEX:  Acuña is gonna swing out of his shoes 10% more than Juan Soto this year, 20% more than Juan–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –Soto this year.

BOBBY:  Right.

BRADFORD:  Can you give me working his way back to actually what game action so it might be a little silly, but fun. And again, that four second, you know, video, is what we’re here for. So–

BOBBY:  Alex, that turns it over to us to select second overall, our first pick. Would you like to do the honors? Bradford actually named-dropped our first pick here.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, he kind of shaved it first–

BOBBY:  Yeah, a little bit.

ALEX:  –right here.

BOBBY:  A little bit.

ALEX:  Our first pick I saw here does not necessarily have the tools on both sides of the ball. But it is one, Vladimir Guerrero Jr.

BOBBY:  It’s not about the tools on both sides of the ball. It’s about the GIF. It’s about, it’s about the GIF. Everybody loves Vlad, everybody loves Vlad, the other players love Vlad. The fans love Vlad, the camera, most importantly, Bradford, the camera loves Vlad and he loves it back. He’s obviously incredible. I think he’s the best hitter, just hitter in baseball right now in terms of what he can cover, the combination of power and contact and a great eye as well. I don’t think that he’s been selected in the GIF Draft yet, up until this point, because last year was kind of his big breakout year. And the Blue Jays were, I think front and center. I think that’s going to be the same this year, I I picked the Blue Jays to go to the World Series. They are by far the most complete team in the AL, I don’t know if they’re necessarily going to end up the best by the end of all of it. Obviously health will have a lot to do with it. But they are the most fun team for me to watch with the amount of incredible hitters in that lineup. And Vlad is, you know, top of the top in that lineup. He’s the, he’s the main attraction. And he’s, he’s a really funny, light hearted guy on the field too. Like he doesn’t take himself too seriously. And I think that that is prone to producing wonderful heartwarming GIFSs out on the field in 2022.

BRADFORD:  I mean, he’s one of those guys where, like, like, in so many ways while we help said that he’s your that a, your father was also an extremely great fun play player.

ALEX:   Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  Because that is like he plays, he’s like there’s a chill to it, you know of like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BRADFORD: –a co- a confidence of like, you know, I know my heritage. [19:04] you know–

BOBBY:  He’s never pressed on [19:06].

BRADFORD:  Yes. Never press. It’s like eh, you know, I’m still a millionaire sound the greatest player in Canadian history, whatever. So it’s cool. It’s all good, but like no, I think that’s a great trick, you know, just despite you know, my advocation of, for Acuña but like, because the man almost won MVP award against the guy who, like, literally does it all, Shohei Ohtani? That’s how exciting, incredible hitter he was last year. That we had people kind of like kind of talking a little reckless about being MVP even though, even though he put in because he had a pitch .

BOBBY:  Yeah.

BRADFORD:  That’s how great a hitter he was. So uhm, you know, he was putting, it he was putting together highlight reels, you know, three times a night for all, you know, pre- pretty much all year, so I totally understand it. I just think you get the, you you get more opportunities for fun stuff on on defense was unbelievable players.

BOBBY:  You’re probably right, the Blue Jays have a very like Memphis Grizzlies vibe to them to me. Like they’re, they’re just, they’re good. They’re legitimately good now. And they all still like each other, you know, haven’t had enough time to start hating each other yet. And so one of my favorite types of GIFs is the celebratory GIF. If you look up, Vladimir Guerrero Jr. on giphy.com, one of the first GIFS that will come up or multiple, the first GIFs that will come up are just him running out of the dugout, versus one of him running out of the dugout jumping up and down with this huge smile on his face. There’s one of him, like, really aggressively. Like, potentially he could have hurt someone dumping Gatorade on his teammates head as as they’re doing their postgame interview. And so he’s just a, he’s a beam of joy. And I’m so excited to get to watch him a lot this year. And I think that, I think that we both acquitted ourselves well. Both teams acquitted ourselves well at this first round. What do you think, Bradford?

BRADFORD:  Yeah, I mean, uhm, I I I I think that’s a great point and just about how much of a cheerleader he is, in between, you know. The, the crazy events and the big big was like, that he is, you know. He is a sparkplug in other ways that I think, I I’m glad you factor that in to your, you know, your consideration for your, you know, at least your first pick.

ALEX:  You know, I think, I think in years past, we haven’t always rewarded, like, that kind of calm, cool, collectedness as much as we probably should. And, and that’s something that I think really comes through when you search his name, right? Like, the, when you search Vlad’s name it, the, the GIFs that come up are not necessarily him pimping home runs, or making sliding stops or anything like that. Like, sure he can, he can do those things. It’s, it’s him standing on the top deck of the dugout, just kind of like moving his hips a little bit, you know, just kind of like, like getting into it. But I mean, and maybe it’s because they were playing the open days, and if I was I’d probably be pretty chill before that game, as well. But I, I really appreciate that, you know, like you guys said, he’s such a huge cheerleader for his team. And for like, just the other players on the field, right? Even, even his opponents. I think they all have such admiration and respect for him, knowing who he is and the lineage that he comes from. It seems like he genuinely gets along with everyone.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And I think that that really, that’s a really rewarding aspect of his.

BOBBY:  Okay, Bradford William Davis, thank you so much. Let people know where they can find you and your work and really anything else that you want them to find.

BRADFORD:  You can find me posting, I love to post, twitter.com forward slash my initials Bradford William Davis, BWD tri- so twitter.com/BWDBWDBWD. You put the BWD once you probably find me so. I’m a I’m an I’m a I’m an investigative reporter in Insider SLI, you know, pay my expensive rent. And barely to be clear from not for some journalism Irish. And, so that’s I’m house for but like yeah, that and you know, anything else is probably you know, connected to the little bird. So find me their reppin on everything and nothing.

ALEX:  Bradford Good to see you.

BRADFORD:  Good to see all, too. Thank you for having me.

Commentator:  First pitch is belted by Acuña. Deep left field, one pitch, it’s one-nothing.

BOBBY:  Two picks down. We are up to our third overall pick. We are joined by Stephen Hesson of Batting Around, 1/3 of Batting Around. Stephen, hello sir, welcome back to Tipping Pitches.

STEPHEN:  Yo!

BOBBY:  It’s great to have you, we’re very excited to see who you all have selected. It’s my understanding that you’ve come to some composite selections. You are the here as the representative–

STEPHEN:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –from the great state of Batting Around.

ALEX:  RIght.

BOBBY:  Come to bring us your GIF selections.

STEPHEN:  Jane and Lauren unfortunately could not make it but we recorded our most recent episode last night and we talked about it. So I am ready to, I’m ready to hopefully not embarrass the Batting Around contingent. I am very interested to hear who has gone so far.

BOBBY:  Yes, I will tell you that right now. So far, Bradford William Davis selected Ronald Acuña Jr.,–

STEPHEN:  Hmm.

BOBBY:  –first overall. And we selected Vladimir Guerrero Jr., second.

STEPHEN:  Yes!

BOBBY:  I feel like those are two pretty chalk picks. And I’m curious to see if you get creative so without further ado, you’re on the clock, sir.

STEPHEN:  Yeah, those are two excellent picks. They were on my list, but they were not number one. For GIFs now, remind me, are we on field only or are we off field?

ALEX:  No. Yeah.

STEPHEN:  Hmm.

ALEX:  We don’t have to stay between the, between the chalk lines so to speak.

BOBBY:  We cast a wide net of GIFs here. We’re in crochet.

STEPHEN:  Okay.

ALEX:  In the dugouts, walking into the stadium, whatever, whatever fits. As long as it can be uploaded to giphy or or giphy cat and we’re not exclusionary on our GIF generator.

BOBBY:  Not until we get this segment sponsored by one of those two. [25:15]–

STEPHEN:  Well–

BOBBY:  –for free here.

STEPHEN:  –that clo- that that that makes it a little closer but I’m still gonna go with my number one pick. The consensus number one among all of the Batting Around crew, I’m picking Shohei Ohtani.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

STEPHEN:  I like, he, there’s just so much there. If you want GIFs of good pitching, boom, you got it. You might give some good hitting, boom, you got it. You want an emotional player showing, like, excitement or disappointment in a really funny dramatic way, boom, you got it. Also very important for my brand, he’s hot as fuck. And he’s probably, probably number one in the league, currently. I haven’t done, I haven’t done an evaluation yet maybe in the middle of the season. But–

BOBBY:  Right we haven’t done–

ALEX:  We haven’t updated your rankings.

STEPHEN:  I haven’t updated my rankings but he’s–

BOBBY:  Sabermetrics.

STEPHEN:  –he’s like top three at least. So yeah, I I feel very comfortable picking our boy, Shohei.

BOBBY:  That’s a great choice, Shohei has been selected I think twice in the All-GIF Draft and you’ve made our jobs very easily. Because we were between Shohei and one other person.

STEPHEN:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Alex, before we make our selection, would you like to talk about Shohei Ohtani? He’s pretty good, he’s pretty good at, at all things baseball [26:37]–

STEPHEN:  I [26:37]

BOBBY:  –including creating GIFs.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think that on my, on my desktop, I have like seven different GIFs or still images of him looking utterly confused at various things happening on, on the, on the ball field. Whether that is a a pitch that he thought was a strike. Whether that is simply an opposing player doing something just that is absolutely baffling to him. He is very representative in that he is consistently showing everyone how confused he is. Which I feel like I can relate to. I am often very confused at things that are happening around me and tend to show that on my face. And and it just once again helps that he happens to be the, the greatest, most holistic baseball player on the planet right now that doesn’t hurt his case either.

STEPHEN:  We stan, we stan a relatable, god-like athlete.

BOBBY:  He, he definitely wears his emotions on his sleeve. Especially in that particularly in the dugout. He’s he’s looking like as nervous as I look during baseball games. I’m like, my guy, you’re the best baseball player alive. Like you don’t need to be that nervous. Things are gonna be okay for you. Although he does play for the Angels. Maybe they won’t be that okay. Yeah, he’s, he’s topped here. He’s AD grade in all respects. And plus you have the added benefit of MLB will be doing this GIF marketing for you all year round. They are pushing–

STEPHEN:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  –Ohtani, rightfully so they are pushing Ohtani like nothing else. So you will have him across platform. Let’s do it, Alex, let’s let’s select, fourth–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –overall pick, second pick for the Tipping Pitches team. We’re gonna do it right in front of you, Stephen, we’re gonna stab you right in the heart. We’re gonna take Nick Castellanos.

STEPHEN:  Ahhh, yup! That was, he was on the list.

BOBBY:  So I I, correct me if I’m wrong, Alex, I don’t think Castellanos has ever been taken in this exercise.

ALEX:  He has not.

BOBBY:  And–

STEPHEN:  That’s the power of memes, baby.

BOBBY:  It is the power of memes.

ALEX:  He is.

BOBBY:  It’s also the power of him actually continuing to be one of the best hitters in baseball. So that he is front and center in a lot of these moments. You know, a few years ago, he was kind of just doubles gap to gap power kind of out of nowhere, like oh, Nick Castellanos on the Tigers, he’s a trade target. And now he’s like a bonafide, he’s part of the Phillies, like all in push. And he, also like you said, very handsome guy. I think that people will happily pass around GIFs of Nick Castellanos on the Phillies. And Phillies fans are absolute sickos, so they will look for any and every little thing that they can get into eternity. We’re gonna make you do some of the work for us this year by selecting Philadelphia Philly for our team.

STEPHEN:  Yeah, yeah. I I am unfortunately going to be doing it. Yep. Oh boy. But you know, I have to keep my personal brand very strong. And yeah, I, he’s the hottest player on the Phillies. A team that includes Bryce Harper, so yeah, excellent pick.

BOBBY:  I think the banner GIF of Castellanos for me it’s him making that face after he had his whole little tussle with Rob Manfred made the face in the postgame on field press conference. You remember that one, Alex?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You made the like the, just kind of stared into the camera.

ALEX:  Yup.

BOBBY:  He’s a little bit of a ham too.

STEPHEN:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  [30:04] plays up to it.

ALEX:  He he does. I’m, the thing about him is that from time to time I feel like his personality can almost not be contained by a GIF. Like it is, it is almost too big, right? For for example, there is, there is the notorious home run that he, that he hits a mid one broadcasters heartfelt apology, right? And obviously, that something like that, for example, transcends really any form of, you know, media that can be transmitted online, right? But, but Stephen, is there something that you’d like to, to add to that?

STEPHEN:  Point of order, real quick.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

STEPHEN:  Does it count sharing GIFs of Thom Brennaman? Does that count toward–

ALEX:  Right.

STEPHEN:  [30:58]

ALEX:  Are they [30:58] really linked now through the–

BOBBY:  No, I think–

ALEX:  –through the cosmos of universe?

BOBBY:  –he’s be like, I, every once in a while you see like a kind of high concept split screen GIF of like one one is like–

STEPHEN:  Oh yeah.

BOBBY:  –Thom Brennaman reacting and the other one is Castellanos hitting a home run. So I feel like if you get creative with it, as long as it’s a, it’s a GIF, I’ve I with featuring the player that you’ve selected. I think that accounts, I think that account, I think that counts.

STEPHEN:  Well, you’re, you guys are really going for it.

BOBBY:  Chess not checkers, Stephen. Chest not check- Okay, well, thank you for coming on and making a wonderful selection and Shohei Ohtani. Thank you for representing Batting Around. Do you want to just let, let the people know where they can find the podcast and anything else you’d like them to find?

STEPHEN:  Yeah, you can find us @Bat- @BattinAround on Twitter, and Batting Around everywhere else in your podcast feeds. We just released our season preview this, the week I’m presuming this episode is coming out. So find us on there, come chat. We’re, I think we’re nice.

ALEX:  Co-signed by, by your friend over here on Tipping Pitches.

STEPHEN:  Sorry, Ja- Jane usually does the outro, so I’m just sort of like, Hi! Yes, hello. Come, come listen to me and my two much smarter and more charming friends talk about baseball.

BOBBY:  [32:21] Batting Around.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  Highly recommended by Tipping Pitches.

Commentator:  Ohtani, crushes it too deep right field, good! Bam! Shohei!

BOBBY:  Okay. We are now joined by Jake Mintz and Jordan Schusterman. Collectively, their Cespedes Family BBQ. I have heard of them. I remember them from a time long, long ago. When we used to do some podcasts together or something like that. Hi guys.

JAKE:  They let us on the air. Let us on a podcast again.

JORDAN:  Hi, Bobby. Now I’ve been kind of having a bit of an identity crisis now that we know that you and Cespedes will be appearing at Mets old timers day or we buy transitive property just old timers are we washed by [33:05]?

BOBBY:  Oh, I thought you were gonna ask if that meant that you had to select him like you said last year or–

JORDAN:  2 years ago!

BOBBY:  –pandemic season, I think.

JORDAN:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Are you gonna take you out be with your first picker?

JORDAN:  Hmm. We probably should have considered that. But I’m not counting on enough Major League times, so–

JAKE:  Next year.

BOBBY:  Next year. Okay, great. I’m gonna let you guys know who has been picked already. There have been four selections that were made. Bradford William Davis, I think you’ve heard of him. He took Ronald Acuña Jr. And then we selected Vladimir Guerrero Jr. In the first round. Stephen Hesson from Batting Around took Shohei Ohtani, third overall. Shohei Ohtani, you guys familiar?

JAKE:  We didn’t consider him.

BOBBY:  You familiar–

JORDAN:  [33:48] think about.

BOBBY:  –with his work? He’s he’s pretty great at producing GIFs, you know, independent of how good he is on the baseball field. And you pause you have the whole media machine behind you the entire MLB mafia behind–

JORDAN:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –you. All the tweets that are being sent by you guys from the MLB account those are working in your favor too.

JAKE:  Let the kids play.

JORDAN:  Yeah, he does have right like he’s got probably the most cameras on him which is kind of a factor we’ve talked about in the past, so.

BOBBY:  Right.

JORDAN:  All fair, but that’s fine. No one on our at the top of our board quite yet. And then who was the fourth person?

BOBBY:  Fourth overall selection that Tipping Pitches team selected Nick Castellanos.

JORDAN:  Ohhh, wow! All right. Okay, well, I I can you tell me more about that pick? Maybe you can use–

BOBBY:  He’s gonna do some weird shit? I don’t know.

JAKE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  How else to say it. I mean, he’s great. He literally broke–

JAKE:  [34:36]

BOBBY:  –a meme so–

JORDAN:  Fantastic.

JAKE:  But he hates it! We know that he hates it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, but even if he hates that meme, he still plays to the camera. You can’t deny that Castellanos knows where the camera is, and does stuff with regards to it.

JORDAN:  I was recently reminded of the Nick Castellanos suspension for the getting up in whose face was was [34:59]? Or no, it was someone, it was like Andrew Kisner or something?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

JORDAN:  Some random, just because the slide at home you just ended up popping up like too close to the other player.

ALEX:  It was, it was pure, like, kind of basketball, right? Like when you–

JORDAN:  Yes.

ALEX:  –like dunk over–

JORDAN:  Yes.

ALEX:  –a guy and then kind of, it’s one of the first GIFs that comes up when you, when you search for it. I think just the fact that he’s such a fucking weirdo kind of lends itself to this, to this format. Even if you can’t predict how it will come out.

BOBBY:  They always do this to us, dude. Every time we tell them who we picked, like, ohhh, oooh, they weren’t even on my board. Cool, guys, cool, guys. You the baseball hipsters over here the GIF hipsters.

JAKE:  No, it’s just because like, you guys are smarter than us, I think, for sure. But we definitely know more about baseball, you know what I mean? And so this GIF Draft is just reassuring that every, every year on an annual basis.

BOBBY:  That’s fine.

JORDAN:  That’s a great tradition. It’s a great tradition.

BOBBY:  But you’ve built up expectations for your first pick. You guys really making should tell the listeners you guys were making two selections.

JORDAN:  Yeah, yeah yeah.

BOBBY:  The fifth overall pick and the seventh overall pick. So you’re now on the clock. Who’s it gonna be?

JORDAN:  Right, but I will just quickly say that we we appreciate you giving us two picks because there are two of us. But this is a joint board. We did come up with this together. This is not Jordan drafting and Jake drafting. We we agreed on this list together. So, Jake, I mean, this is this is incredible. But he fell to us at five. I’m feeling great.

JAKE:  A no brainer selection, Jake Mintz and Jordan Shusterman we’ll select Jasrado Prince Hermis Arrington Chisholm Jr., aka, “Jazz”.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he was next on our list.

JORDAN:  Okay, good, then I’m glad we didn’t overthink it and think we could get in with our next one. Jazz is an easy call here. Now while unlike, you know, Ohtani or or even Vlad and some of these other guys that will be on TV–

BOBBY:  Unlike them–

JORDAN:  –all the time.

BOBBY:  –he’s not actually [36:48] baseball, right?

JORDAN:  No, no, no.

JAKE:  kNot yet!.

JORDAN:  That’s not–

JAKE:  Not yet!

JORDAN:  –that’s not we’re saying, that’s not we’re saying. Maybe there won’t be as many cameras on him as possible. But I think that Jazz has a, as far as a pure highlight producer, and the variety of highlights that he is capable of giving us on all every facet of the game, right? He can give us a backflip, he can give us amazing base running. He can give us amazing defense. He’s capable of all that from a baseball standpoint. And then from a personality standpoint, I mean, the dude’s name is Jazz for a reason. And he is extremely extraordinarily fun.

JAKE:  Very few professional baseball players, relatively, want to be famous people. Which is in my opinion, people, ohh, baseball personality market- that is the reality of the sport. And I think there are many reasons for that. A lot of which have to do with Southern Right Conservatism. But we don’t need to get into that right now.

BOBBY:  No, no, you should–

ALEX:  [37:47]–

BOBBY:  –you should get to it.

ALEX:  –actually.

BOBBY:  Yeah, if you’d like more.

JAKE:  Okay.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

JORDAN:  Getting to it.

JAKE:  My point, my point is, Jazz Chisholm wants to be renowned. And that matters when we’re talking about GIFs. But doesn’t matter is his 96 OBS plus from last year, okay? That doesn’t matter. That’s a number that’s gonna go up. What does matter is that he is cool as hell. likes being cool as hell, wants to be on camera, wants to be famous. I’m telling you man, this is a no brainer. I think I would have taken him second overall, in the baseball.

JORDAN:  Here’s the other thing about Jazz that I’m most excited about this year. Is now he has some cool friends. You know we we, I don’t know if we did take him last. I don’t think we did take him but we we we are a huge fan of Jesús Aguilar and he has been–

JAKE:  [38:40]

JORDAN:  –we we love, we love our Matt Joyce proclaimer Jesús Aguilar. But and Miggy Rose is fantastic, right? We love him grow. But other than that I mean like, it Jazz and Brian Anderson wasn’t really like a fun duo. But added Jorge Soler. I mean, that, we we we’re really starting to an an exciting team down there. I don’t know how good they’re gonna be. Obviously, I got to see the same kind of thing. So I just, I just love that to adding of Soler to the mix. I’m seeing a lot more, you know, team related entertaining GIFs from Jazz.

JAKE:  Last point. Every home run he hits is literally a GIF, because he Euro steps onto home plate.

ALEX:  It’s true.

BOBBY:  How much value do you get out of that though? If it’s the same–

JAKE:  At over time?

BOBBY:  –GIF every time?

JAKE:  Over time–

JORDAN:  Yeah.

JAKE:  –he’s definitely going to mix it up like he’s going to, he’s going to do different stuff. Again–

JORDAN:  Yeah.

JAKE:  –he wants to be on camera.

JORDAN:  Yeah. But I do, I do agree, right. There’s gonna be some some repetition there. But in in general I just, it’s just such an easy pick, man. I mean, I I, if he was on like 25 other teams, he would be even 10- 10 times as big of a deal. So we love Jazz, happy to have him. Is your board in shambles, Bobby Wagner? It sounds like it is.

BOBBY:  It’s, it’s not not in shambles. We’re just trying to make sure that we do the right thing here is all.

JORDAN:  Right.

BOBBY:  I think that you, you’ve put us on a little bit of the defensive by trying to make us seem like we’re not cool enough with our selection.

JAKE:  You guys–

BOBBY:  That was a really good pick.

JAKE:  –you guys are definitely cool. You just know less about baseball. That for sure. Thought about cool, it’s knowledge.

JORDAN:  Not what we’re talking about, okay?

BOBBY:  I I I feel–

ALEX:  Harsh fair.

BOBBY:  –I feel good, knowing less about baseball number one. And I feel good turning it over to you, Alex and I’m happy with whatever you think is best right here.

ALEX:  God, I hate when you do this.

BOBBY:  I love doing this.

ALEX:  I hate when you do this.

BOBBY:  I love it.

JORDAN:  It’s like, this is funny. This is like trying to give someone an alley-oop. And they’re just kind of landing and awkwardly looking to pass after they catch the ball.

ALEX:  Right, right.

JORDAN:  That’s what Alex is doing right now.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Well, in in lieu of Jazz Chisholm, who who I think very well could have gone first overall, in this draft.

JAKE:  People, people will look back.

JORDAN:  I think you guys overthought it, everyone overthought it.

ALEX:  Yeah, we we do this.

JORDAN:  [40:54] continue.

ALEX:  We do this every year.

JORDAN:  Okay.

BOBBY:  I feel fine about our first pick Vladimir Guerrero Jr., I don’t know if you know this, he knows–

JORDAN:  [41:00] our board.

BOBBY:  –every single person in baseball intimately.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And they fuck around with each other all the time.

JORDAN:  Totally.

BOBBY:  He’s a great–

JORDAN:  On our board, totally fun.

ALEX:  I think we’re gonna have to take a, take a cue from you guys last year. I believe it was last year and go with one Tim Anderson once, once again. In part purely by virtue of the fact that there really is always, always a camera on him. And he in the same vein, as Jazz would, would like to be the biggest presence on the field. And once again, when you talk about supporting cast, Tim Anderson is an easy pick with with the infield that he’s playing in with guys like Moncada, with guys like Abreu. You, you very well could make an All-GIF team from the Chicago White Sox alone. But, but Tim Anderson might be, might be the top, might be the top of that, top of that list. Although I know there might be some other guys on there that, that are in the running.

JAKE:  Hmm.

JORDAN:  Hmm, interesting. We love this pick, obviously. Who doesn’t love TA7?

JAKE:  Brad Keller.

JORDAN:  I’m so sorry. There’s the one, there’s the–

BOBBY:  The Southern White Conservatives that Jake point out.

JAKE:  How do you- yeah. How do you guys feel about the fact that he’s suspended for the first two games of the year? You know that? That TA is–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

JAKE:  –apparently suspended? I didn’t know I forgot about this.

JORDAN:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

JORDAN:  That’s, I mean, he could play every other game. But I don’t know, I mean, we might just forget about, forget–

BOBBY:  The diminish the value of him not–

JAKE:  Right.

BOBBY:  –having the first two games.

JAKE:  By Saturday, he’s not, he’s not around till Saturday.

ALEX:  It’s pretty ridiculous, it’s one of those things that, you remember when, when they they decided to suspend Yuli Gurriel. But they were like, we’re actually not going to do it for the Playoffs. We’re just going to push it back to the next season.

JORDAN:  Right.

ALEX:  Like they very well–

BOBBY:  Yeah, if they have a moment to suspend him during the World Series.

JAKE:  Yeah, it was really good that everyone was able to remember the incredibly heinous thing that he did six months later and allow it to reenter the public discourse [43:07]

ALEX:  Right.

JAKE:  Yeah, no, very weird. But it’s fine. You’ll have him for, you know, 160 games, so you’ll be okay.

BOBBY:  The only thing that, the only thing that stinks about Tim Anderson in the GIF Draft is that you don’t get like, don’t get him talking about anybody else. Like–

JORDAN:  I I think this is a good point, too. Because, you know, there are players who are so like TA is right like that are so real in a way that is both charming and entertaining and all these things, right? And that’s definitely true. And we’ve heard Jazz say some pretty crazy stuff also. So I mean, he would fit in that, but it’s fine. You’re right, the GIF. Can hear a GIF. Sorry, guys can hear it. We’re not doing lip reading over here. So it doesn’t count. I mean, it sort of counts, but not in the way that you’re describing it so. Okay, good pick, though.

BOBBY:  There’s an argument to be made that he had the GIF of the year last year with a walk off home run at the Field–

JORDAN:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –of Dreams.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s a very good point. That’s a very good point. And again–

JAKE:  I think–

JORDAN:  We happy to take him–

JAKE:  [44:05] our GIF of the year pointing at [44:07]

BOBBY:  So don’t get the audio.

ALEX:  [44:09]

JAKE:  [44:11] pick. I I want to just say, before I sat down here, I engaged in a little thought experiment in my own brain. About who would I least want to pick. Which major league regular would be my last pick in this draft?

BOBBY:  Right.

JAKE:  And the answer is Austin Hays. And I just wanted to share that briefly before we made our selection. I–

BOBBY:  Who did, who did Jordan drive by shoot?

JORDAN:  Kyle Gibbs.

BOBBY:  What pitcher? Kyle Gibbs, who then–

JORDAN:  Became an All-Star. So–

BOBBY:  That he was the most boring, uninteresting player baseball last year–

JAKE:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –and was an All-Star.

JAKE:  And, yeah, I don’t know.

ALEX:  Doesn’t make him any more interesting. I just gotta say that.

BOBBY:  That’s fair. Yeah.

JORDAN:  Yeah. Well, that’s true.

BOBBY:  You think our final selection like the Mr. Irrelevant of the Tipping Pitches board would be Joe Panik, Alex?

JORDAN:  See Joe Panik is a much better one. I I disagree with the Hays pick but–

JAKE:  Ryan–

JORDAN:  –I’ll I’ll save that–

JAKE:  –Reynolds is–

JORDAN:  –for another–

JAKE:  –is the best good player.

JORDAN:  I think Brian Anderson now for [45:06]–

JAKE:  Ohhh.

JORDAN:  –there because–

ALEX:  Uhmm.

JORDAN:  –I think that I don’t’ feel like Austin Hays has given us some amazing catches, you know.

JAKE:  César Hernandez.

JORDAN:  Yes, César Hernandez is–

JAKE:  Nap- naptime.

BOBBY:  This riveting audio of you guys choosing the guys who you don’t want.

JORDAN:  Okay, [45:22]–

JAKE:  Okay, [45:22]–

BOBBY:  It is now back to you for the seventh overall.

JORDAN:  Now, if you were listening to this podcast over the last, you know, five minutes, you can’t see us. But Alex, you can see us reacting to your Tim Anderson pick.

ALEX:  Could.

JORDAN:  You could see us agree.

BOBBY:  There’s a buzz in the draft drum.

JORDAN:  With some- you can see us agreeing with some of your points about the Chicago White Sox. And because of that, that is a little little lead up into our second selection, Jake Mintz, please announce it.

JAKE:  The only baseball player to die and come back to life. We are selecting Eloy Jimenez of the Chicago White Sox.

JORDAN:  Yes, we feel good about this one. Now, this is a little bit different than Jazz. Again, to your point–

BOBBY:  And that jazz has never gone to the other side.

JORDAN:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Seem what it’s like–

JORDAN:  Well, hold on, let’s let’s save that point.

BOBBY:  –in the afterlife.

JORDAN:  That will be our, that will be our closing argument. We’ll get to that, okay? Let’s talk about living-Eloy, okay? Before he went, you know, moved on, crossed over. This dude is so delightful and not necessarily- in in a different way than Jazz, right? Like Jazz, as as Jake said, wants to be famous, wants to be seen, wants to be flamboyant, and all these things. Isn’t Eloy’s nickname, “Big Baby” like he is so just charmingly huge and goofy. And that translates to terrible outfield defense, which is one of the keys of a good GIF that is in baseball, internet history. Terrible outfield defense is way up there in terms of categories to give us amazing GIFs. And so when you add that to some jaw-dropping homers and backflips. And and him, you know, saying hi, mom, and all those things. I love this pick, and I’m very happy to have it. Jake, what else about Eloy?

JAKE:  I also think it’s worth mentioning that that bad outfield defense is why he died, in the first place.

JORDAN:  Yes, yes. The first person to die trying to rob a homer in Spring Training which what a way, what a way to go out. In terms of like the Darwin Awards, I don’t know how familiar we are–

JAKE:  Yeah, I am.

JORDAN:  –with that. We’re trying to run the home runs Spring Training is really has to be way up there.

JAKE:  Yes. But–

JORDAN:  It’s good to be back. Amazing!

JAKE:  –Eloy, we are also betting on Eloy to ascend as a player on the field this year, to become–

JORDAN:  Not just descend to the great beyond.

JAKE:  Not just descend to the pearly gates–

BOBBY:  Ascend on the third day of the season, the fourth day of the season.

JAKE:  But to ascend into the conversation for best power hitter in the American League. He missed la- most of last season because of his death and hopefully he can have a full death read 2022.

JORDAN:  I agree. And yeah, man, I I think he is like when you have this many famous fun players it’s it is pretty, pretty easy to get lost. But I mean the dude he’s still 25 like, I he’s, he’s great, he’s great. And he clearly was not all the way back last year.

BOBBY:  No.

JAKE:  All the way back from what, Jordan?

JORDAN:  Well, if that’s true, maybe a lot to ask to really be all the way back from from–

BOBBY:  It across the River Styx again like it’s a whole whole fucking journey.

JORDAN:  Right. So–

JAKE:  [48:48]

JORDAN:  –anyway, for [48:49] we’re we’re, we’re very in, we’re very in. I mean, this dude, hit hit 30 homers, you know, as a rookie a few years ago. So I mean, I’ll be loyal in that. I I can’t wait to see him for a full year this year.

BOBBY:  It’s a phenomenal selection, the GIF of him falling into the net. And just kind of sitting in there is the one that really sticks in in my mind as I look over here at his at his giphy search page [49:11]–

ALEX:  [49:11] botheredness.

JAKE:  This is not a coordinated gentleman, okay?

JORDAN:  No, no, and he knows it too.

JAKE:  Yeah.

JORDAN:  If anyone can recreate, well, I still believe as a top five funniest GIF for the last five years that Marcell Ozuna botched-catch where he climbed the wall and it was off it like lands in front of the winning track.

JAKE:  Twice.

JORDAN:  This is our guy. This is our man. So–

BOBBY:  Oh, I forgot about that.

JAKE:  [49:37] I think he–

JORDAN:  I know that was those Ozuna not not–

BOBBY:  So good.

JORDAN:  –but he could do it.

JAKE:  I think he could also recreate the greatest baseball GIF of all time, Jordan, which is the Raúl Ibañez throw.

JORDAN:  Just chucking it straight into the ground. So there’s so many possibilities. And as far as we know, right, like he’s going to be out there. I don’t–

JAKE:  Yeah.

JORDAN:  –I don’t think, yeah, he’s there like they’ve stood there. I mean Gavin Sheets, I’m not picking Gavin Sheets for the GIF Draft. Although he would also probably be fairly entertaining on the left field. But yeah, so we’re we’re all in, Eloy is our second pick. I love our guy.

ALEX:  Doesn’t, doesn’t hurt that he plays baseball with his jersey halfway on [50:16]–

JORDAN:  Uh-hmm. Another good point, another good point very true. So–

BOBBY:  Okay, we’re going to select with the eighth overall pick. Great pick, Eloy, I love it. I love it for you guys. You crushed it as always. We’re gonna go with the first, the first to the first pitcher only selected so far. It’s we’ve gone back and forth on the value of choosing pitchers in the GIF Draft. Because I, I feel like there is sort of like a stealing for most guys. It’s just it’s usually going to be a, a GIF of a nasty pitch. But you do kind of need to satisfy that want on your team. You need to satisfy that role for those of us who love the pitching ninja element of the GIF world. And so I think we’re gonna go with Corbin Burnes. Because I feel like he has the most GIFs of making people look silliest. Like backdoor cutters, sliders that make batters look ridiculous. And of all of the pictures that we could have selected I guess you know, we’ve chosen Max Scherzer in the past, something we’ve ever chosen Jacob deGrom, I don’t think it’s excellence really translates into GIF form. Although Scherzer psychotic illness does. I think it’s just the cleanest, simplest picture to choose for this year. So we’re going with Corbin Burnes.

JORDAN:  Now we see your point. We have talked about how right value of picking pitchers for us we only have two picks. You guys have way more than two picks. So it’s easier for you to go pitcher wise and if we’re talking aesthetic of pitch I agree that his cutter is way up there. But I don’t know, he really isn’t giving you much else. So, but it’s fine if–

BOBBY:  And he will.

JORDAN:  Maybe, maybe, maybe–

JAKE:  No!

JORDAN:  Jake disagrees, but again we will–

BOBBY:  [51:54]

ALEX:  [51:54] for for your, the your, the argument that you know more about baseball than, than us, really.

JAKE:  I mean, do you want me to be, I think this pick sucks!

JORDAN:  Hmmm.

BOBBY:  Wow! [52:06] thrown.

ALEX:  Okay.

JAKE:  I think this pick sucks. Yeah, he’s never going to exalt This is not like a strikeout the last guy the inning fist pump guy. This is not a jaw at the hitter guy. I think you could have selected someone with equal parts of nastiness and loudness. Amir Garrett, would have been another selection, because he is–

BOBBY:  We, we got, we got burned by him last year.

ALEX:  Yeah.

JORDAN:  Yeah. That- yeah. You need someone that you definitely is going to be pitching a lot. Obviously, that is the risk of taking someone there. So–

JAKE:  Liam Hendriks, another guy that comes to mind.

BOBBY:  Yeah, another guy that you’d missed the audio for, though.

JORDAN:  Yeah. That’s what I about to say.

ALEX:  To hear it in your head with him though, right? Like you almost don’t even need the audio to know–

JORDAN:  Hendriks probably would be my–

JAKE:  Hear–

JORDAN:  –reliever pick. I mean–

JAKE:  I will make- let me make one more point. Let, let me, let me shit on you guys just a little more if you don’t mind.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

JAKE:  Okay?

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm. Yep, bring it on.

JAKE:  Issue with Corbin Burnes, is that very few casuals, I think, could recognize him in a GIF. Part of that is that he sees on the Brewers. Part of that is because he was not really that famous until last year. I understand that he won the Cy Young. But I am still skeptical that if you just tweeted a GIF of Corbin Burnes and said who is this? I think the amount of people who would know our concerningly low to get draft [53:37]

BOBBY:  Q score?

JAKE:  I think it’s pretty low. That is my last point. Again, I like you guys as people, a lot. I think you’re, I think you’re good dudes, okay? And I love you.

JORDAN:  There was any doubt. Yeah.

JAKE:  I hate this pick.

BOBBY:  This can be the beginning of our online beef that we start so that people think that that’s why you left The Ringer, that you’re just shitting on Corbin Burnes.

JORDAN:  I am curious how many of, how many more picks?

JAKE:  I know! No, no, no, I’m not shitting on Corbin Burnes is an–

BOBBY:  Jake Mintz saying–

JAKE:  –outstanding pitcher.

BOBBY:  Jake Mintz thinks Corbin Burnes won the Mickey Mouse Cy Young in 2021.

JORDAN:  Is, how many more picks are there total?

ALEX:  It depends on how many people get back to us.

BOBBY:  Six, six, I think

JORDAN:  I’m curious if any other pitchers get selected. We’ll see, not our problem.

JAKE:  Can you take Rob–

JORDAN:  We love [54:27] duo.

JAKE:  –can you take Rob Manfred?

BOBBY:  That’s an interesting question.

ALEX:  It is an interesting question.

BOBBY:  It has only ever been players, but Rob Manfred is not a bad idea. Might have to stash that one out.

JORDAN:  What about managers? Would managers, would there be any managers worthy of GIFs?

BOBBY:  I don’t think so.

JORDAN:  Probably not. Certainly not–

JAKE:  To- Tony Tony La Russa. But the thing with Tony La Russa is I just don’t know if he’s a good culture fit for Chicago.

JORDAN:  On by, on the GIF Draft.

ALEX:  We also have technically banned Tony La Russa discussion from this from this–

JAKE:  That–

ALEX:  –podcast.

JAKE:  –that is, that is why I, I read the banned book.

BOBBY:  Okay, Jake and Jordan, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you to Jordan for not shitting on our picks the entire time and thank you to Jake for shitting on our picks the entire time. Where, where can people find your work these days?

JAKE:  You can find our work on our group chat that me and Jordan have with one another. Because it’s not really a group. I’m writing, I’m rewriting the Bible with calligraphy by hand, and that’ll be out at Barnes and Nobles across the country really soon. I’m working on a short animation film of Joe Panik grinding out to second base so people can catch that in AMC theaters.

BOBBY:  That one is funded by Tipping Pitches media.

JAKE:  Yeah, 2023. Also we write for Fox Sports.

JORDAN:  foxsports.com, we’re all kinds of fun, written content going on over there. As well as video stuff coming soon. Podcast, we will podcast by Division III Baseball, check it out. It’s called the Podcast About Division III Baseball.

BOBBY:  It’s good for FBL.

JORDAN:  We also have a podcast about Division I Baseball. Which you can check out with our good friend Stephen Schoch. And then our podcasts about Major League Baseball is coming very, very soon.

JAKE:  No, no it’s not!

JORDAN:  Oh, it’s not. Nevermind, we don’t have. It’s over. Baseball BBQ, dead forever and it will never return.

BOBBY:  The archive is still up if you want to go back and listen to The Good, The Bad & The Ugly from August 2020.

JAKE:  You should. Last thing I’ll say, we are now that our podcast was murdered in cold blood. We are going to be producing–

BOBBY:  It’s gone to be with Eloy.

JAKE:  It’s with 2021 early season Eloy in chatting with St. Peter. If you do want to hear us talk about baseball, we’re going to be doing a lot more YouTube content. So you should subscribe to us on YouTube. Click the link down below. And on Cespedes Family BBQ on YouTube, foolish baseball slept in my guest bedroom for four days. And now I want to be a YouTuber.

JORDAN:  All said.

BOBBY:  Thank you, guys.

JORDAN:  Go subscribe. Thank you.

Commentator:  Sharply hit, diving play by Jazz. Up with throw the first hit. Time! Jazz Chisholm Jr.

BOBBY:  We are now joined once again by Clinton Yates. Hello, Clinton, thank you for coming back and doing this wonderfully stupid exercise with us.

CLINTON:  You know, this is part of what makes me me and what makes our baseball community our baseball community. If we don’t have wonderfully stupid exercises, what are we here for? You know what I’m saying? It’s a large part of how I run my office so to speak so, yes!

BOBBY:  Made more wonderfully stupid by the fact that you’re just driving through Los Angeles traffic while making this selection right now. It’s perfect.

CLINTON:  I’m all [57:52]

BOBBY:  No notes.

ALEX:  If we, if you hear a turn signal in there anywhere.

CLINTON:  I’m on Crenshaw Boulevard right now.

BOBBY:  Wouldn’t change a single thing. Okay, I’m going to tell you who all has been selected and who selected them.

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  First overall pick, Bradford William Davis selected Ronald Acuña Jr. We team–

CLINTON:  All right.

BOBBY:  –Tipping Pitches then selected Vladimir Guerrero Jr. Then Stephen–

CLINTON:  Okay.

BOBBY:  –Hesson from Batting Around, took Shohei Ohtani. We took Nick Castellanos.

CLINTON:  All right.

BOBBY:  Jake and Jordan who you just saw on the way in and out of the Zoom room. Selected Jazz Chisholm Jr. and we selected Tim Anderson. Then they selected Eloy Jimenez, and we selected pitching ninja-god, Corbin Burnes.

CLINTON:  Jake’s pick, completely obvious. Obviously he went to the Bahamas, that was clear. He was enticed by the islands. And that’s a great thing. I’m gonna go a little bit more off board more towards the nostalgia range with a bit of a Z-axis pick. I’m picking Mets manager Buck Showalter. Let me–

BOBBY:  Wow!

CLINTON:  –explain why.

BOBBY:  Okay, wait, we have–

ALEX:  Beautiful.

BOBBY:  –we have a first in the Tipping Pitches GIF Draft. The first non-player–

CLINTON:  You weren’t ready for this–

BOBBY:  –ever selected.

ALEX:  Actually, actually this is, this was just asked by our, by Cespedes Family BBQ friends, if non-players were allowed to be picked. And here you are setting the stage. So–

JORDAN:  Here I am, I didn’t ask, I’m telling you. I’m picking Buck Showalter, let’s think about the setup. First of all, Buck, old man Buck coming back to the game with a team that is arguably one of the most ridiculous in the league. In terms of how they run their front office. Is I say that with all due respect. Shout outs to [59:31] Ben who’s back in that operation, doing something good. I’m being facetious but just in general. That guy’s been on TV, that guy’s been around the bigs forever. God knows what’s gonna happen with him from an oilfield standpoint. Buck Showalter is my pick in the 2022 MLB GIF Draft.

BOBBY:  That’s a pretty amazing pick. I gotta hand it to you, doing first and asking for forgiveness later. Like not even checking in on the rules is a, is a, is a big flex. I respect that [59:58]–

CLINTON:  Yeah. What are we, what are we doing here? What are we doing here? He wears a uniform, he’s in the dugout. As far as I’m concerned, he’s as available for all GIFs as possible. And here’s the secondary point. When a guy like that comes back to the game, give him some flowers. I’d like to see the socials on MLB, show us a little bit of the Buck meanness, the Buck absurdity, the Buck showing people how to corked bats on National TV. A thing he actually did. You heard him saying like, come on. This guy is the closest thing we got is a national treasure from his generation, that’s actually still in the game in an invisible space.

ALEX:  He’s definitely the platonic ideal of like a curmudgeonly baseball, curman- manager, right? Like–

CLINTON:  Yes! You know, like, I have book GIFs in my mind that I can’t even like, you know, describe. Because I just remember watching this guy so much growing up, Wag, you seem betwixt and befuddled by my choices.

BOBBY:  No! No, no. I’m impressed, I’m impressed. I liked how you called it, Z-axis pick, because it’s that I might I might steal that phrase.

CLINTON:  Okay, traded, traded some phrases today.

BOBBY:  Exactly.

CLINTON:  That’s fine.

BOBBY:  Uhm, no, I I will be, I will probably be making a lot of Buck Showalter GIFs this year as–

CLINTON:  They–

BOBBY:  –a gigantic Mets fan of the podcast, I’ll basically be doing your work for you, man. So, so you’re playing–

CLINTON:  This is–

BOBBY:  –you’re playing a little bit of chess, not checkers with us. I like it.

CLINTON:  Correct. That’s where the Z-axis lives, sir.

BOBBY:  And we ourselves the Tipping Pitches, I consider us inclusionist. So we’re not, we’re not offended that you went off board–

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  –manager here.

CLINTON:  Good, good. Okay. So your turn now?

BOBBY:  Yes, that turns it back over to us. We, you know, we’ve been doing this now for, I believe this is our fourth season, that we’re doing it.

CLINTON:  Okay.

BOBBY:  So we’re wrestling a little bit with internal draft strategy between choosing guys that we know will produce incredible GIFs and have been doing–

CLINTON:  Sure.

BOBBY:  –it for a long time that we’ve already picked versus guys that we are a little bit more off board who have not been selecting this exercise yet. And I think–

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  –for, for our pick, we’re going to go back a couple years to someone who we were really high on early in this exercise. And have left them off for a couple years because of I guess mostly because of injuries. But we’re going to choose Byron Buxton. Because–

CLINTON:  Oh, yeah.

BOBBY:  –he, he is most likely to do things that nobody else on a baseball field can do, especially defensively. We’ve checked all the bo- we’ve checked the boxes–

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in terms of weirdness by selecting Nick Castellanos, he’s gonna like, you know, play to the camera, do weird mememable stuff. We have Vladimir Guerrero Jr. who–

CLINTON:  You know me too, explained the content, You don’t need to explain the content god, Nick Castellanos. So every time that guy shows up, something great happens.

BOBBY:  Exactly, Jake and Jordan kind of shit on that pick. And we were kind of just like, All right, dude we’ll, we’ll see at the end this year.

CLINTON:  What?! Yeah, yeah, come on now.

BOBBY:  We’ll, we’ll let our draft board talk for ourselves. For–

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  –for, we’ll we’ll let our draft board talk for us. So, you know, we we filled that hole, Vladimir Guerrero Jr. is obviously incredible baseball player. Who, who makes highlight plays but also knows everybody else. So he has like the sort–

CLINTON:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –of team–

CLINTON:  I like him.

BOBBY:  –camaraderie GIFs.

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  Tim Anderson has the loudest GIFs in Baseball. Corbin Burnes checks are pitching, pitching box. And now we’re checking our defense box. We’re building a full–

CLINTON:  Okay.

BOBBY:  –well-rounded team.

CLINTON:  I like the way you’re running your program here. I like it, okay.

BOBBY:  We’re spreading our payroll out evenly. Alex, I know. I know you’re a gigantic fan of Byron Buxton and he makes you feel all of the feels. Do you feel confident that he can stay on the field is that this is the full healthy Byron Buxton season that is going to make him the GIF king that was promised?

ALEX:  No! Not, not at all. I not even close, I mean, I, I’m rooting for it. And if he does, you know, it’s it’s him or Vlad for MVP in the AL, right? But–

BOBBY:  Wow! You heard it here first.

ALEX:  Yeah, you did. But just the, the level of energy that he brings to the game, right? Again, we’re not drafting actual baseball skills. But, but it comes through in the GIFs. The man, the the way he runs it, he does not run in a manner that it looks like he is one of the fastest people in Baseball. Like ’cause he’s so gangly, and his arms and legs are going in every direction. And then he’s standing on third base, and you’re like, how the hell did that happen, right?

CLINTON:  We saw that long, long levers in the scouting room. That’s that’s what he’s got going on. Yeah.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. So like he is, he’s, he’s tool Z. He has a gorgeous, he has a gorgeous smile. And I, you can’t discount that. So I’m, I’m all in on him this year.

CLINTON:  I liked this pick for a couple reasons. Number one, he plays a very active position just in terms of how he does. Also, you want to pick somebody that is well-liked by their fan base. And potentially the most like player on the team, which might not necessarily be the case but like you mentioned the flashy smile. He’s a very likable guy, popular up there, that helps the curating.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

CLINTON:  Which to me is important–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm

CLINTON:  –induced decision making. This gets back to why I went with Showalter because my number one theory about the Metropolitans, which is the best theory on Earth. All Mets fans hate other Mets fans. So the Mets manager doing stuff that makes them upset is going to be one of the more traded pieces of imagery there is out there. So this this all adds up to me, in a major way.

BOBBY:  It’s a phenomenal [1:05:24]–

CLINTON:  [1:05:24]

BOBBY:  –no, no, you’re exact–

ALEX:  Not at all.

BOBBY:  –you are exactly right. Like the Terry Collins arguing with Tom Hallion effecting–

CLINTON:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –in real time. Like that would have been probably the top GIF for that year. Even though you couldn’t really hear what he was saying. But him just getting right in that face–

CLINTON:  Right.

BOBBY:  –right in the face of Tom Hallion. And so, you know, opening that up for yourselves and and for Team friends. I think that you, you’re pushing the boundaries here, Clinton, and that’s why we bring you on Tipping Pitches to push boundaries.

CLINTON:  I I appreciate that. If I was gonna be real, like, weird about it, I’d make caveats for me, which that I’m the only one that’s allowed to pick managers and sports. I’m not gonna do that, I’m not gonna do that. I recognize the inclusive vibe here. But I just want everybody to know if you do it going forward–

BOBBY:  [1:06:09]

ALEX:  Yeah, here’s the thing is I don’t, I don’t know that anyone else is courageous enough outside of you–

CLINTON:  I know.

ALEX:  –to pick a manager in the All-GIF Draft. So you have, you have–

CLINTON:  Fair enough, fair enough.

BOBBY:  Clinton Yates, it’s always wonderful to talk to you. ESPN, he’s on the television, man. He- turned on the television and see Clinton Yates.

CLINTON:  I do a lot, I do a lot. Thanks, guys. I’m, I’m so glad you guys asked me to do this again. Like this is a very fun thing. What do you call it silly exercises?

BOBBY:  Yes. Silly and stupid exercises.

CLINTON:  Those are my type to hear.

BOBBY:  Anything else, anything else that you want people to find of yours?

CLINTON:  Uhm, no. But I’m very not happy about the idea of Robo Umps and the idea of people–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

CLINTON:  –using Nintendo power gloves to call pitches. I just don’t understand reinventing this wheel, specifically. I don’t think it’s going to speed things up that much. I think it’s very weird for infielders. I feel like if you want to battle technology in terms of sign ceiling. You eliminate the technology, you don’t add more. Like I said this on my buddy’s podcast earlier today. Yo, what if I’m some 80-year old guy with a hand radio Arizona? I’m picking up signals from what, you know, it’s just like–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

CLINTON:  –what are we doing here? Why do we have gear pieces and arm things for playing baseball. I know that sounds very old. Very Get off my lawn. But that’s like, the fun part to me is that you can figure it out with your eyes, your fingers and your hands and your feet. That’s why baseball is cool, you know.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

CLINTON:  So I don’t know, man, it’s just to me, it seems to be adding a level of complication that I don’t need. And when it comes to umpires, if you don’t like the way the umpires or umpiring, again, get better humans, you don’t need to get more computers. And this whole idea of the cabal of humans, that all exactness at all times in the strike zone is taken over everything that’s more important about what the purpose of all the humans on the field are. I’m not buying that, all right. I’ll take umpires 100%, okay? As long as we can get people that are absolutely the best that we can get. That’s how I feel about it. That’s why I love Baseball.

BOBBY:  And the Buck Showalter pick finally comes into clearest focus with the anti-computers rants. Snuck it in there.

CLINTON:  I’m, I’m a little slightly, slightly on my porch screaming at kids. But at the same time, this is part of the idea of what I think Major League Baseball specifically is biggest problem is. Trying to market things that aren’t just the fun part about playing. Which is what most people who liked the sport most actually liked it, you know what I mean? And that’s, that’s, that’s a big thing for me, we don’t need all this other stuff get helps. But if people liked the game on a poor level for just what it is to pick the ball up in a ball, throw a ball, catch the ground or dive for a stab or whatever, then people are going to like it more in addition to all the other stuff, not the other way around.

BOBBY:  Incredibly well said.

ALEX:  Well said.

BOBBY:  Clinton, thank you.

Commentator:  I’ll give you a little insight. You know, I still get residuals from that. I guess it was a popular show. I remember when they first asked me to do it. I came home, the kids to dad you got to do it. It’s a real popular show. But the problem is I had to get up at eight o’clock in the morning after a night game out in Anaheim and auxiliary locker room to shoot it but I didn’t one shot. I was pretty excited about that. But the problem is everybody kept cracking up at George. But understand that every time they show that it costs me $19 in taxes. So when you guys see it, go God books gotta fall another tax from that show.

BOBBY:  All right, Meg Rowley, back on the podcast, Managing Editor of a little website called FanGraphs, which we are big fans of. Hi, Meg.

MEG:  Hi!

BOBBY:  Thank you for joining us again on the Tipping Pitches 2022 All-GIF Draft. You’re, you’re a fan of GIFs. And you’re a fan of baseball players and your–

MEG:  Yeah!

BOBBY:  –fan of baseball players making GIFs, is that all accurate?

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  For the listeners at home now.

MEG:  Yeah, I think, you know, Baseball famously a visual medium, and I think some, some of the players in it, you know, they’re, they’re fun to watch. So when you can break it down into, I don’t know, tiny expressive clips, more for that, it’s fine.

ALEX:  That’s why we, every year we conduct an entire exercise drafting visual mediums on a medium that is not–

MEG:  Not visual?

ALEX:  –visual. It’s very fun.

MEG:  Well as a fellow Baseball Podcaster I, I feel your pain.

BOBBY:  It’s safe to say that when we started this silly exercise, Alex, I don’t really think we foresaw this many friends joining us, this many years later. That, that, it was mostly just to you and me didn’t have a better idea for how to preview a season.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Meg this is your third, third year, joining us? Second year? Third year? I don’t really recall.

MEG:  What is time? I couldn’t tell you who I picked in the past. I’m sure that they did great though.

BOBBY:  I’m pretty sure. recently acquired Toronto Blue Jays third baseman Matt Chapman was one of your picks at one point.

MEG:  Oh, yeah.

BOBBY:  It was defensive highlights. That’s–

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –a good pick, great pick.

MEG:  Yeah, I mean, it’s good that if he was my pick last year, I wasn’t selecting him for his bat. So as long as it was about the fielding, I think I did fine.

BOBBY:  Okay, I’ve already offline told you who has been selected because you requested that information ahead of time.

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You’re getting your big board all in order and I respect that. So you should be as ready as anybody can be to make a selection. So with- without further ado, I will turn it over to you. You’re on the clock to make your All-GIF selection.

MEG:  Okay, I will be accused of this being a homer pick. And you know what, I I’m fine with that. I am going the prospect route. And I am selecting the the ones and future face of the Seattle Mariners, Julio Rodriguez. I think that Julio, you know, Julio is an incredibly exciting player. Like sometimes we discount how great these guys are when we’re drafting them for GIF ability I think that we should say like Julio was our number four overall prospect in in in Baseball at FanGraphs this year. He’s a, a 65 future value. Exciting, exciting guy, big raw power, big game power, fun hit tool. I think the the cool thing that Julio does is that, like, Julio plays Baseball with a lot of joy and expression. And he seems to take seriously the idea that he not only with his play on the field but as sort of an ambassador to the fan base can really usher in a new era of Mariners Baseball that we hope to see in Seattle. And so in addition to his play on the field, I think that he’s just gonna, he’s gonna do fun stuff. Like he’s gonna make excited faces and in the dugout. He’ll probably, you know, he’ll come up with fun traditions as he goes around the bases or you know, is in the field or is hitting big home run. So, I’m I’m picking Julio because I think that I I will look back on this and feel as if getting him where I have in this draft that he was a steal.

BOBBY:  It’s all about, it’s all about value.

MEG:  Right.

BOBBY:  And the slot, that the slot value is very important–

MEG:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  –Tipping Pitches All-GIF Draft.

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So, so we’re now knocking down multiple barriers. Clinton Yates just selected Buck Showalter, a first for a manager being selected was a first. And I believe this makes the first person who has never debuted–

MEG:  Ohhh.

BOBBY:  –to be selected Julio Rodriguez.

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So you know, no fear that Tipping Pitches 2022.

MEG:  No.

BOBBY:  GIF Draft–

MEG:  No fear.

BOBBY:  –from from team friends, I love that.

MEG:  Yeah, we are, we are a, a fearless contingent. I mean, I thought about, I thought about other prospects who are coming up it’s, it’s exciting. Like there are a lot of top prospects who are making their team’s opening day rosters. And so for fans of–

BOBBY:  Meg Rowley, says service time manipulation is over on Tipping Pitches.

MEG:  Well, I mean, like O’Neil Cruz apparently has to learn how to be a left fielder. So we’re not, we haven’t, we haven’t gotten there all the way. But as you think about the guys in that group of prospects, I think that just from a GIF ability perspective, like Julio probably is the top guy even if we have Adley Rutschman as our top actual prospect in Baseball. Because I appreciate that not everyone likes framing as much as I do. So while–

BOBBY:  It’s fra- framing GIF.

MEG:  –sitting there I’m, I’m doing hand gestures [1:14:12]–

BOBBY:  I’m tired waiting someone up you really–

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –distressing Joe West to, wait, no sorry. Joe West is retired. You’re drafting–

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –Angel Hernandez.

MEG:  Oh, God. So I mean, we should, we could do a a draft of umpires having to announce the rationale for replay decisions. Like that could be its own draft if one were so inclined. I don’t know if we have enough information to do that draft with any kind of rigor right now that might need to be a mid-season. You know if you’re like going into the All-Star breaking or like what will we ever talked about you can do the all umpire [1:14:42]

BOBBY:  By the All-Star break you know us, we’ll be talking about the next potential labor stoppage.

MEG:  Oh God.

ALEX:  I’m, when you, when you Google or when you search on on giphy Julio Rodriguez GIFs. One of the first one that comes up is, is, you know, they, every, every player kind of they do they’re kind of like hype videos for the team, right?

MEG:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  And so it’s a bunch of different GIFs of them just kind of doing random activities against the backdrop that they’ve compressed into a GIF. My favorite is it looks like he’s just drinking tea. And then, and then saying, Ahhh, afterwards, I’m really, I’m fascinated to hear what the Genesis was of of this particular action that he took.

MEG:  Is he in uniform when he’s doing that?

ALEX:  He is in uniform. Yes.

MEG:  Wow! I mean, he has, he has like a YouTube show that he is, is quite proud of. And so some of this is me, assuming that it will translate from from YouTube to to the fields. But yeah, I don’t know. I don’t know what that’s about, I can’t wait to find out.

BOBBY:  Something much discussed in the, the GIF Draft, this year especially is how, how much does the added benefit of having teammates who are also GIF-able, support a guy’s–

MEG:  Ohhh.

BOBBY:  –case for draft ability? And I think for Julio, you know, he’s gonna be on a team that people have a lot of vested interest in because of what you’re saying, Meg.

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  They’re finally calling up all these guys. And I think, you know, like being in the same lineup. And the same outfield as someone like Kelenic, it’ll, it’ll be good for his GIFs this year.

MEG:  Yeah. And like, they won’t be next to each other in the field, obviously. But like J.P. Crawford, I think is an underrated GIF-able guy. I don’t know that we can say that Robbie Ray just tight pants are GIF-able but boy, are those pants tight? They are some tight pants Jesse Winker has that long, long neck. You know, it’s just like, it’s just very long. So–

BOBBY:  Amazing breakdown of the physiology of the 2022 Mariners right now.

MEG:  Yeah. Long neck, tight pants. Can’t lose.

BOBBY:  Uhm, okay. That is, that is a great selection. It has freed us up to to draft none other than a beloved member of the Tipping Pitches extended universe, and that is Kike Hernandez.

MEG:  Oooh, sure. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Who, Alex, has he ever been drafted?

ALEX:  I really don’t think he has, which feels of–

BOBBY:  Just like a ma- a massive–

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –oversizing.

MEG:  That’s surprising.

BOBBY:  –a massive oversight. Kike is, you know, obviously not the best player in baseball, but he’s up there with the most fun players in baseball, just just from a off field shenanigans perspective. He loves to have a lot of fun. And he’s always kind of generally aware of where the camera is, as he’s making his ridiculous–

MEG:  Right.

BOBBY:  –faces or doing his ridiculous dance moves. Or walking behind someone during a postgame inter- on field interview, any of those things. And I just think it’s kind of a shame and I feel kind of bad that we’ve never selected Kike Hernandez.

ALEX:  Yeah, it’s pretty remarkable given that he generates good half-dozen kind of AD grade outputs in GIFs every year.

MEG:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I, I sometimes, sometimes that happens to be him standing on a, on a bubblegum bucket.

MEG:  Yeah.

ALEX:  In order, in order to poke fun at his, at his height. That as, as you said, Bobby, might be hidden dancing in the field and looking straight into the camera. But he’s, as, as we’ve noted in the past, actual baseball talent has very little correlation when it comes to GIF ability, right? If you are just having fun out there on the field, frankly, that’s really, that’s really all it takes.

BOBBY:  I’m looking at a GIF right now. From, from way back when of Kike pretending to kiss, it appears that it is Adrian Gonzalez. So this is from way back in his Dodgers days, pretending to kiss him in the dugout, putting his hand in front of his mouth and then walking up to him and kissing him. This is just the kind of stuff that you you can’t make it up. You know, Kike’s reality is stranger than our fantasy about whatever the greatest GIFs could possibly be produced by Major League Baseball players.

MEG:  I am of the opinion that like, you know, they shouldn’t do it if they don’t want to, be more of a baseball guy should kiss each other if they’re excited. Like we should, you know, at the end of the World Series, some of them look like they want to kiss. And and again, if they don’t want to, they shouldn’t do it. You shouldn’t. Never obligated to kiss but I think that they should feel free to kiss, you know. If they want to, if they’re like, this is how I will express affection for my friend in a moment that we have been working for our entire lives. You could feel free to give him a little kiss.

BOBBY:  If there’s a guy who’s gonna do it.

MEG:  Yeah!

BOBBY:  It’s Kike.

MEG:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

MEG:  There should be more pink and purple on uniforms and there should be more kissing.

ALEX:  [1:19:44]

BOBBY:  Full hardly support. Full–

ALEX:  Absolutely.

BOBBY:  –hardly support. Uhm, okay, that completes round six of the 2022 All-GIF Draft. Meg Rowley, thank you. Where can they find, where can people find your work and your podcasting? And anything else that you’d like them to find. Even if it’s not related to your work or Baseball.

MEG:  Sure, you can check out all of the stuff that I edit and the words I occasionally write at fangraphs.com You can listen to me and Ben Lindbergh on Effectively Wild, our wonderful Baseball Podcast. It is also a FanGraphs and all the places that you find your podcast. You can follow me on Twitter @megrowler but only if you aren’t weird and have good boundaries.

BOBBY:  Also get a FanGraphs subscription if you’re listening.

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Come on.

MEG:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Come on.

MEG:  Yeah, an ad free membership, it helps us, it helps you, it’s a win for everybody.

BOBBY:  Thanks, Meg.

MEG:  Thanks for having me.

Commentator:  [1:20:39] Sweet! Destroyed! This is going to the Kid City, baby! That is destroyed, clobbered and gone.

BOBBY:  It is the final round, it is here. We are joined by many time Tipping Pitches guests. One of our absolute faves, Shakeia Taylor. Hi, Shakeia, it’s been too long. How are you?

SHAKEIA:  It’s been a way too long, what’s up? I’m glad to be here, you know, the unofficial third co host.

ALEX:  We’ve had more than, more than one request to just let you come host the podcast. Which, frankly I on, on days off when I’m not feeling it we might, we might reach out to you.

BOBBY:  Are you–

SHAKEIA:  Let me join.

BOBBY:  –are you often feeling it on on every day that we record, Alex? Because sometimes, to me it feels like I’m not, I’m not always feeling it.

ALEX:  We’ll both tap out.

SHAKEIA:  Just have me on. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Monopod.

SHAKEIA:  You know, I, I like freestyle a little bit.

ALEX:  Exactly.

SHAKEIA:  I can’t rap but I use like the old sprite commercials.

ALEX:  There you go.

SHAKEIA:  Just Tipping Pitches will have a completely new audience in one week. Because everyone would be like that girl lost her mind. You guys got a shoutout on Ballpark Figures last night.

BOBBY:  I heard, I heard from Twitter.

ALEX:  Hmmm.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

SHAKEIA:  You’re across pi love this.

BOBBY:  Appreciate that, appreciate that. I heard that Mark was wearing one of the, one of the first generation Tipping Pitches Unionize the–

SHAKEIA:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –Minors shirts. So that’s, that’s–

SHAKEIA:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –longtime love, that’s longtime love. Shakeia, you were just a costing us before we started the podcast about how you’re selecting in the final round this year. Supposed to previously, you’ve been the first overall selection in the last–

SHAKEIA:  Uh-uhm.

BOBBY:  –few years. It’s, it has nothing to do with your performance, which I [1:22:26]–

SHAKEIA:  I demand a recount, January 6th on the pod right now. I’m going crazy.

BOBBY:  It’s been nothing but phenomenal. But Alex and I are very bad procrastinators. So we waited until the last minute to ask folks to come on and do this. And just because you’re a busy person, we’re busy people. We’re seeking you in right at the end here before we publish this tomorrow. We sit here on Wednesday, and other people just were, like, ready right away. So they’re not–

SHAKEIA:  You know what?

BOBBY:  –busy, they–

SHAKEIA:  Save the best for last.

BOBBY:  –don’t have as much going on, best for last. Exactly.

SHAKEIA:  Best for last.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

SHAKEIA:  Natalie Cole said it, you know, we’re gonna save the best for last. Hard to everyone else who picked, let the real has arrived.

BOBBY:  Okay, it is your time to make a selection. Who would you like to pick in the 2022 Tipping Pitches All-GIF Draft?

SHAKEIA:  Ten-tenenen. Mookieeeee, I’m going with Mookie Betts. Uhm, you know, it’s Mookie, right? First of all, what a cool ass nickname. Uhm, you know, and obviously, there’s the callback to Spike Lee, right? As Mookie, “Do the Right Thing.” Dodgers fan. In the movie we all know, Spike is probably not actually a Dodgers fan. But also, my papa is a Dodgers fan. And that’s something that I recently discovered. Uhm, I didn’t grow up around my paternal grandfather for I don’t even know what reason, uhm, and it doesn’t really matter. But a couple of weeks ago, I was on the phone with my dad, and my papa was over his house. Yes, I am a grown up calling my grandfather my papa, he will not answer to anything else.

BOBBY:  I love that..

SHAKEIA:  But so, my papa over my, over my dad’s house. My dad had knee surgery, papa in his 80s, still drives, okay. Which, you know, I question that, but whatever. He’s visiting my dad and my dad’s like, talk to your grandfather. So I’m on the phone with my grandfather. And I go, you know, I was wondering, pop, who is your, who’s your Baseball team? And he goes, well, my favorite players are dead, you know? And it’s like, well, obviously like, but if they weren’t, what team were they on? And he’s like, well, all black people like the Dodgers in my time. And, and it’s like, well, who am I? Why didn’t I think of that, you know? So it was just a moment and I asked him who his favorite player was, and he said Roy Campanella, which–

ALEX:  Wow.

SHAKEIA:  –is extremely dope. And I thought for a second I was going to try to, like, bandwagon the Dodgers a little bit as a, you know, homage to my papa. So when I couldn’t get my first choice in this draft, I went with my papa’s choice. So I’m glowing, Mookie Betts for, for the, for the entire Taylor family there.

BOBBY:  I love it.

ALEX:  I, you, this is like, arguably one of the more shallow exercises we do on this podcast every year. And you just brought a tremendous amount of depth to it. No one, no one has a personal story–

BOBBY:  Generational gravitas to the selection of Mookie Betts [1:25:50]–

ALEX:  Literally, right?

BOBBY:  –the final round of the GIF Draft this year. What an excellent pick, you know, we, Mookie has been selected in the GIF Draft before I don’t remember by who or in what years. But he’s obviously a human highlight reel, a five tool player. I do feel like he’s kind of fallen out of the national conversation a little bit as you know, one of the game’s best players in the last couple of years. Whether that be because you know, Tatis gets call up in the same division or because the Dodgers are just so, so good as an entire roster. Or because he was hurt for a long stretch of last year. But you know, we’re talking about a guy who is the only player to put up a better season than Mike Trout and went in a season where Mike Trout has played a full year. Like this guy is cream of the crop, best of the best. And it’s not like he’s lacking for emotion or expressiveness, or style or individuality out there. So I, I think it’s a phenomenal pick. You’ve, you’ve acquitted yourself very nicely, Shakeia. Even though you’re picking–

SHAKEIA:  Thank you.

BOBBY:  –last, instead of first.

SHAKEIA:  But I feel like because my pick is so good, and it’s for my papa. I mean, last becomes first, everyone’s gonna forget everyone else who chose, right? They’re gonna be like, wow, that’s Shakeia, she’s so thoughtful. She thinks, talk about her grandfather, like yeah, I already won, you know, [1:27:04]–

ALEX:  I know it, you really are making the rest of us look bad being like, being like, oh, well, he has tight pants and his butt looks good.

BOBBY:  We’re picking the Castellanos for memes. And she is picking Mookie Betts for family.

ALEX:  Yeah.

SHAKEIA:  Hey, look, for family.

ALEX:  Yeah. Not, not to mention, not to mention, the man is a two-sports star, right? Like, on the bowling alley.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  He’s gonna–

SHAKEIA:  That should say [1:27:34]–

ALEX:  –he’s gonna go, he’s gonna go off.

BOBBY:  Those GIFs counts.

ALEX:  Absolutely counts.

BOBBY:  I, I completely agree if he bowls at 300, that last strike counts as one of the best GIFs of the year.

SHAKEIA:  Also, do you, I remember I think it was this summer, this past summer. I don’t know, fall, everything’s running together since March of 2020 [1:27:54]. But when Mookie got married, he’s in some of his photos at the wedding reception just in an undershirt. Like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

SHAKEIA:  –and his tuxedo pants, and Nelly performed at his wedding, he actually got hot in there and took his shirt off. Like, you cannot beat that kind of wedding performance. Any wedding reception that ends in a shirtless groom, it’s a, it’s a good wedding. It’s a–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

SHAKEIA:  –wedding.

ALEX:  Yeah, especially when said groom is Mookie Betts, right? Like damn, I want, I want Mookie Betts shirtless at my wedding, too, you know, like?

BOBBY:  Speaking into existence, Alex. This is our platform and you’re using it for good, trying to get Mookie to come through.

SHAKEIA:  Mookie! Hey, Mookie!

BOBBY:  Okay.

SHAKEIA:  Come take your shirt off at my wedding

BOBBY:  Was that, see when they’re coming into town when the Dodgers–

ALEX:  Weird- weirdest sign.

BOBBY:  –are going into town so you could hold up a sign.

SHAKEIA:  The sign?

ALEX:  Yeah, weirdest signs that ever gonna be showed on ESPN.

BOBBY:  Jesus.

SHAKEIA:  I feel like I wouldn’t even wear it on a shirt. Like because then–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

SHAKEIA:  –you don’t have to worry about, you know, just put it on your shirt.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

SHAKEIA:  That shirt that says, I just hope both teams have fun, you can change it, you know. It’s I hope Mookie takes off his shirt at my wedding. Viral in two seconds.

BOBBY:  At most esoteric t-shirt ever made. Okay. We’re on the clock. Alex, would you like to do the honors of the Mr. Irrelevant of the 2022 All GIF Draft, the final selection.

ALEX:  Of course, someone we all know and love and I think tends to probably get overshadowed a little bit by some of the other stars on his team. But that’s one Ozzie Albies. The goat.

SHAKEIA:  I like it.

ALEX:  I feel like he truly does not get the the respect that he deserves in part because he plays with one of the greatest outfielders in baseball, one of the greatest hitters in baseball right now, right? In Ronald Acuña Jr, obviously. The, the number one overall pick in this draft by one Bradford William Davis. I feel like almost the fact that he doesn’t have the spotlight on him the entire time lets him loosen up a little bit. He has a beautiful bromance with, with Dansby Swanson, across the, across the base from him, his, his turning to partner, and–

BOBBY:  Two very different guys just extremely–

ALEX:  Extremely different–

BOBBY:  –differently human beings, in so many ways.

ALEX:  But he just feels like he has so much love to share with–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –everyone, whether it’s on his team, or or players on the other team. And so and so we couldn’t let this draft go by he’s never been picked, I don’t think–

BOBBY:  No [1:30:41]–

ALEX:  So–

SHAKEIA:  I would pick him.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  He’s, so when I think of Ozzy, I think of just the joy of Baseball. Like, he he never takes himself too seriously, even during the World Series last year. And this is the GIF that I think of, and this is the GIF that I will ask Alex to put into our blog posts whenever we get around to making that this year. The GIF I think of with Ozzy is him knowing that there’s a camera in the base, and going over to the base, and sticking his head under it on the national broadcast. Like that’s so funny. He did that during the World Series, the most important baseball games of his life. So I I think it’s, you know, it’s a shame that we’ve never taken him before. I’m glad that we get the opportunity to take him here. And I feel really good about adding him to our team.

SHAKEIA:  I love it. It’s an amazing choice. I actually consulted with my, my Life Consultant, Craig Goldstein. And he suggested that I pick Ozzy so like, I mean, I obviou- I love it. I think it’s great. I think picking someone who’s fun but overlooked is a, a very you guys kind of thing. Uhm, so I began and I think the the base camera antics are amazing. I would like to put my face near a base camera and like, you know, be like you got games on your phone just to see if people catch the reference. So, I think it’s really awesome. That’s my feedback. Great choice. A+, 10 out of 10.

ALEX:  There’s also, a there’s a really gorgeous like GIF/video of him caressing Acuña in the dugout, right? I don’t know what- whatever it was that, that Acuña was, was going through at the moment, he just needed a shoulder to lean on. And Ozzy so gladly, just like let’s hi- let’s Acuña cuddle up into him. And it’s kind of like stroking his head and stuff. And I feel like so many baseball players would be very hesitant to kind of, I mean, baseball players love showing emotion. But that sort of like level of intimacy, I think a lot of players are hesitant to maybe lean into. And and the fact they have such a deep and close relationship. I think matters–

SHAKEIA:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  –matters a lot. And and I love that, that he’s not afraid to let the world see that.

SHAKEIA:  Since you will baseball, the world needs more of it.

ALEX:  Exactly. Exactly. Mookie Betts shirts off.

SHAKEIA:  Oh my God!

ALEX:  Caressing Acuña, like–

SHAKEIA:  The world, needs now, the shirtless Mookie Betts. [1:33:26], sorry.

BOBBY:  Wonderful, wonderful. No, more people should sing on to the Tipping Pitches Podcast.

ALEX:  True.

BOBBY:  That concludes the 2022 All-GIF Draft. Shakeia, thank you so much for joining us. It’s always great to see you.

SHAKEIA:  Thank you for having me.

BOBBY:  We need to talk to you again sooner. We can’t, we can’t spend this much time without having you on the podcast again. Do you want to–

SHAKEIA:  I mean.

BOBBY:  –do you want to let the people know where they can find all the stuff that you’re doing, all the writing that you’re doing? The shows that you’re hosting, the many things that you want people to see that you’re working on?

SHAKEIA:  Uhm, I’m on Twitter @curlyfro, I am on Instagram @alittlebitofdope. It is spelled correctly, all spelled out, no capital letters. I get asked that all the time. And as far as the writing, it’s all, it it’s all on the bird app. Like I I have a website but who uses those anymore? It’s all on the bird app.

Commentator:  The Dodgers on one. Swatted away in the center field! Diving play! A walked-off Jazz! Mookie magic!

BOBBY:  Thanks to Bradford, Stephen, Jake. Jordan, Clinton, Meg, and Shakeia. Alex, I’m very excited for this season. We weren’t sure if it was going to come, to be honest. But it’s here. It feels good.

ALEX:  It does. I wasn’t really sure how I was going to feel about it kind of as Opening Day rolled around. And then I realized that I actually do still care about Baseball despite what my favorite team is trying to, to do to myself and and the rest of our fan base. I’m excited for 29 baseball teams this year.

BOBBY:  I still haven’t repurchased mlb.tv.

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  Got to get on that!

ALEX:  Yeah, I haven’t either. I did accidentally repurchased Minor League Baseball TV this year. When I, when I saw that $50 charge on my credit card. But you know what, you know what, that’s fine. That’s fine. They need it. More than, more than the millionaire’s playing baseball, right? And that money I know is going directly into [1:35:36]–

BOBBY:  Directly to the pockets. Yeah.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Exactly. I still have it- I also still haven’t made a plan for how now that I live back in New York. I’m going to watch Mets games. Because they’ll all be blacked out. But, you know, I’ll find my ways to do it. Even though they shut down my beloved VillaSport last year.

ALEX:  Yes, there are plenty, plenty of options out there for you. I’ll, I’ll help you, you know, route, set up your router to go through a VPN or something.

BOBBY:  So that I can get it on my PlayStation.

ALEX:  Exactly. Using a VPN to watch Mets games on your Playstation 2022 is wild.

BOBBY:  That’s Praxis right there too.

ALEX:  That really is.

BOBBY:  If listeners at home thinks that there are any extremely glaring omissions from the 2022 All-GIF Draft please call in and feel free to make your selection. Though you have less than three minutes, I will remind people on a voicemail. Less than three minutes, but you can call in and tell us who you would have selected, 785-422-5881. So leave us a voicemail. You can write us at tippingpitchespod@gmail.com, tipping_pitches on Twitter. Very excited for this year. And I’m very excited to be doing this podcast still with you my friend.

ALEX:  I am as well. I will, I leave the listeners with what Meg Rowley put best long necks, tight pants, can’t lose. Enjoy the season everyone.

[1:37:05]

[Music]

[1:37:20]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodApril 7, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:all-gif draft, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on The 2022 All-GIF Draft	
The 2022 Tipping Pitches Banned Topics

Bobby and Alex talk about one journalist’s coverage of the Astros and wonder whether Tipping Pitches’ second act will manifest itself in defense of service time manipulation, then discuss Oneil Cruz, Hunter Greene, and the varying logics behind prospect promotions. Then, they decide on a handful of “banned” topics in 2022. Finally, they answer a few listener questions about preferred rooting interests in 2022, stealing entertainment ideas from other sports, and whether the Guardians’ tactical retreat from competitiveness is worse than that of teams like the A’s.

Links:
Hat Trick Circa 1911 https://pod.link/1265588219/episode/bf1d88b191bfad51fa46d45d6fdc0641

Songs featured in this episode:
oso oso — “pensacola” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, later in this episode, you and I are going to do a new segment that we haven’t done before, called the Tipping Pitches Banned Topics for 2022. And I’m really excited to talk to you about that segment. But I thought for our cold open here, I would turn the clock back to late 2019. Bringing up an old, somewhat banned segment that you and I got tired of talking about. Are you okay with that?

ALEX:  Not having heard what the segment is beforehand. I feel like I’m signing a bit of a blank check here.

BOBBY:  I’m your business–

ALEX:  Yes!

BOBBY:  –partner, you supposed to sign blank checks for me, come on.

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s true. It’s true. I do put my [1:06]–

BOBBY:  [1:06] my friend.

ALEX:  Yes. Right.

BOBBY:  So some of our listeners may know that my day job is producing podcasts. And part of that job when you produce narrative podcasts is listening to other narrative podcasts and seeing what they’re doing well. And so my manager recently asked me and another, me and the rest of the team of Narrative Podcast Producers at the ringer to listen to, as he often does an episode of another podcast. This time he’s selected, Alex. Do you want to know what he’s selected? I’m gonna tell you what he selected, he selected The Edge, the podcast by Ben Reiter about the Astro sign stealing scandal.

ALEX:  This is good. Famously, no one had any critiques about the Astros’ prior to the, the breaking of the sign stealing scandal and I think anyone who, who praised them gave lengthy mea culpa’s as to why maybe their, their perspectives were a little bit misguided. Is that correct?

BOBBY:  Right that that’s exactly correct. Famously, you and I refuse to listen to this podcast. Because not that like many people were asking us to listen to this podcast and give our thoughts on it or anything like that. But I think that we had a, a somewhat principled stance that it’s kind of ridiculous that the guy who wrote the magazine article and then ‘the book’ about the Astros, called Astroball, also got to do this prestige podcast about the Astros sign stealing scandal. That was my stance going into it.

ALEX:  So what did you find? Did you, did you listen to it?

BOBBY:  I listened to, so my manager only asked me to listen to the first episode.

ALEX:  But you got hooked?

BOBBY:  Not only did I get hooked, I got hooked in like a really kind of embarrassing hate listen kind of way. And I listened to all seven of the episodes consecutively, on a plane.

ALEX:  That’s quite the ringing endorsement, right there.

BOBBY:  It’s quite the ringing endorsement. So listen, the podcast is well-made. Music is good. Interviews are good. Appearance from multiple time guests, Hannah Kaiser in there talking about how the Astros are ridiculous organization. There’s a lot to like about it. And to his credit, Ben Reiter addresses openly. I missed this multiple times. I can’t believe I missed this. The one thing that I really didn’t like about it is that it’s just gives Jeff Luhnow a pretty open mic. Like there’s a whole episode about the Roberto Osuna trade and he’s basically just like, I understood why people were mad. And then that’s the conversation about it.

ALEX:  I I guess the the first step to solving a problem is admitting that you have one, right? I suppose.

BOBBY:  I suppose.

ALEX:  Usually, that’s not also the last step but hey, that’s just me.

BOBBY:  The reason I bring this up on the podcast here is because I think I’m gonna be the guy that comes to items of cultural flashpoints, you know? Like pop cultural flashpoints? I’m gonna be the guy that comes to them two and a half years late. What do you think about that bit? Like I just have really strong opinions about Three Billboards Outside Ebbing Missouri right now.

ALEX:  The- there you go. Yeah. I mean, I think it’s more entertaining–

BOBBY:  Greenberg was an outrage.

ALEX:  Is why entertaining if if these are moments in pop culture that by and large were relatively I think inconsequential to like the broader disc- I mean, this this made made brief waves I think in the baseball world when it came out. But and, and people gave their commentary whether it was for or against, and frankly, I don’t even really have have strong feelings about this anymore. I mean, hey, get that bag, I guess, you know. The grip never stops.

BOBBY:  Wow, Alex angling for season two of The Edge, the Oakland Athletics.

ALEX:  Right, but I think it’s, I think it’s, I think it’ll be enjoyable for you to rant about something that, you know, I think probably maybe a majority of our listeners really have no context for, you know. I mean, maybe a majority of our listeners listened to The Edge.

BOBBY:  Nah! I don’t think our listeners are really the type.

ALEX:  I don’t know that they’re the target demographic, but I could be wrong. So that’s kind of why I appreciate you telling me about this because I actually have, I kind of memory hold it.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And, and had to take a second to go to, go to Ben’s Twitter profile, and just remind myself to who he was. And I I hope that, I hope that you enjoyed it for your own sake.

BOBBY:  I can’t really decide if I, if enjoy it is the right word. But hopefully, we can become involved in missing a huge scandal in the baseball world and then getting to do a start season prestige series on this here podcast feed in the future. We just like missed all along that, I can’t even think of an example because all we do is criticize things. So–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –it would have to be something where we were criticizing it all along. And actually, it turned out to be good. Like, we do a short, we do a prestige podcast series about how actually MLB is doing great things for the baseball world in like three years from now.

ALEX:  Right. Actually, service-time manipulation, has–

BOBBY:  It was good!

ALEX:  –inch- instrumental in improving the outlook of plenty of future Major League stars.

BOBBY:  I look forward to our work on how moving the All-Star game out of Atlanta actually did cost the businesses of Atlanta $100 million.

ALEX:  Right. Exactly. Kris Bryant really did need to work on his defense good for two weeks, guys. That’s why the Rockies just went out and signed him.

BOBBY:  The Edge, Theo Epstein was right. Okay, we’re gonna do Banned Topics of 2022. We’ll also close with a couple listener questions. We have a couple quick hits to get to up top. Before we do all of that. I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[6:56]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Alex listeners can’t see this. But I’m here in Arizona Spring Training. Beautiful, sunny, Phoenix, Arizona. Hanging out, meeting baseball players. How’s New York?

ALEX:  There’s no Baseball out here as of yet. However, I will be able to go and see Aaron Judge play Baseball in New York very soon. Thank you, one Eric Adams.

BOBBY:  Wow, a long storied tradition of talking about New York City, mayoral politics sneaks its way back into the podcast very proud of us.

ALEX:  Ab- absolutely. I mean, Eric kind of, kind of did that one for us. We really didn’t have to try hard to make that connection.

BOBBY:  He’s almost like making it too easy.

ALEX:  Right for context. For the majority of our listeners who have little to no vested interest in, in Eric Adams’ day to day mayoral happenings, he he did decide to remove the vaccine mandate for athletes and entertainers. Because, quote, “A a small number of people have an outsize impact on our economy.” Which I guess–

BOBBY:  That was the reasoning he gave? He made it like a capitalism thing?

ALEX:  Right. Well, because if Aaron Judge isn’t able to play–

BOBBY:  The Yankees will go under.

ALEX:  –the Yankees will go under, Wall Street is in jeopardy.

BOBBY:  The Bronx will have to fold kind of as a borough. So New York City will be a four borough gig from now on.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Wall Street is in jeopardy.

ALEX:  All of a sudden Staten Islanders have, have no reason to come into the city anymore.

BOBBY:  Now we’re in the three boroughs city, because Staten Islanders don’t want to come into New York City so that they just secede.

ALEX:  Really what, what we’re saying is a a small viral outbreak in a country on the other side of the world years ago, led to the consolidation of New York and the downfall of the Yankees, actually, maybe not the worst outcome in the world.

BOBBY:  That, that is true. No, I’m here in Arizona, doing some some Artusi to stuff. So that is why the podcast is late this week. My sincere apologies. I’ve been traveling quite a bit. But we’re going to stick to a Thursday schedule, I think for the next at least a couple of weeks because we have opening day, a week from today, which is very exciting, Alex. Unless you’re a fan of a team like the Pittsburgh Pirates who are already saying where they’re gonna start opening day with their top prospects who is probably ready in O’Neil Cruz at shortstop. It turns out that all that service time manipulation language in the CBA. Similar to the anti-tanking language in the CBA, Alex. It didn’t, didn’t actually work. It didn’t actually do anything, which is why the owners ratified it 30-0 within 20 minutes of receiving it.

ALEX:  Yeah, it’s almost like dangling a carrot in front of the owners. The carrot being potential small amounts of future gains in, in young stars and draft picks. Does not actually outweigh being able to save 10s of 1000s of of dollars? Hundreds of 1000s of dollars? Also in the somewhat long, I’m I’m, I’m really actually curious the the calculations that teams like the Pirates make where they have found that being non-competitive is relatively profitable. And these new tanking measures were instituted, supposedly to encourage teams like the Pirates to try a little bit harder. And they’ve still made the financial calculation that it’s not, it’s not worth it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I mean, you always clown on me for being the person who organizes his thoughts in Twitter threads before coming to talk about them on the podcast. But–

ALEX:  For at least you organize your thoughts.

BOBBY:  –for at least I organize my thoughts, number one. And number two, what I was saying is, when you don’t call a player up, when they’re likely ready, just to get a year of service time back, what you’re saying is that, you’re probably not going to be ready to compete for at least three years, right? Because that’s how long you have the player on their minimum contract. And it’s not like as soon as you start calling up all of your guys, you’re gonna start winning. The 2016 Cubs, they’re an outlier in that respect. Even the Astros, who had a about as good of a core as you have young players as you can possibly assemble, they had already called up some of those guys. Altuve had been in the majors for several years before they got good. Springer had been in the majors for several years before they got good. And then they called up Correa, and it still took them two more years to get to a World Series. And actually finalize the team and build the rest around it. Because once you actually start calling up your players and say that you’re opening up your competitive window or your whatever, like Wall Street language they want to use about changing the direction of the franchise. Like you’re, you’re converting your assets into competition this year, or whatever the fuck GM say, these days. Once you do that, you have to actually see how it plays out on the field. And whether those players all fit together, what you’re still missing, what which prospects don’t actually pan out. So I don’t own- I don’t always understand the calculus of saying, we’re not going to call this guy up until the last possible minute. Because it seems to me like that means that there’s not really an end point to this tanking, to being bad. Like you’re only trying to get a year of his service time back so that he will become a more valuable trade asset whenever you’re going to trade him three years from now.

ALEX:  I mean, I think that’s just it, right? I don’t think it’s the Pirates saying, we recognize when our competitive window is going to come and we think it’s maybe still a a couple years out. Therefore we’ll, we’ll make sure that we have O’Neil Cruz when we think our window is coming. I do think it is, and I think this maybe is not the case with every single team. Although the Cubs are a very good example of manipulating service time and then doing absolutely nothing with it, right? Manipulating Kris Bryant’s service time, and then just letting him dip, you know. And and not actually building a winning team around him in his final years.

BOBBY:  And now he’s on the Rockies.

ALEX:  Right. I think a lot of teams see that as saying this, this gives us a little bit more of a runway, in which we can evaluate what the market is like for said player. We can, we can wait until his value is at the highest. And then cash out.

BOBBY:  Yeah. But it’s just so cynical, and of course, that seems like a very obvious thing to say. But at the end of the day, they’re not holding these guys back because they think that their competitive window will be one year later. The Pirates don’t know when their competitive window is going to be. The Pirates don’t have a plan, there is no plan here. Except for to accumulate as many assets so that they contin- so that they can continue to shuffle those assets into future assets. That is as far as I can tell what the Pirates plan is. Because they have not indicated anywhere publicly that that is anything that their plan is anything other than that. Like the Orioles I guess supposedly have a year when they might want to be good. They’re obviously not going to come out and say that publicly so at least they’re a little bit more defensible. But if you don’t have a different plan for when you’re going to be good, then, like you’re saying, the whole reason of gaining back another year of service time is just for the optionality of it. And it’s like, how is that good for the sport? Like, how are we just okay, with this? It’s insane!

ALEX:  I have, I have some bad news for you about the interests of the owners, and what is good for the sport.

BOBBY:  I know, I know. But then you’re seeing teams, you’re seeing more teams now, actually make the calculation that it might be better to call up these guys when they’re ready. Because then you have a better chance at signing them to an extension. And there are at least a handful of teams who are willing to do that. Now I don’t really think the Reds are one of those teams. But they did just decide to call up Hunter Greene [15:45] opening day. Hunter Greene, the Reds topic in 2017. Also their top prospects, one of the, one of the top pitching prospects in Baseball. I don’t think he’s really like, in the top two or three anymore, like he was when he got drafted. But I’m really excited to see him pitch and have been waiting for this for a while is very highly touted High School pitcher in the draft, they’re just calling them up right away to pitch on April 10. And it doesn’t really track with anything else the Reds are doing right now. But I do think at least there, there is not 100% consensus about how to handle every prospect, these days. Tatís got called up at the beginning. Pete Alonzo got called up at the beginning of the year, even though he could have got called up the year before. Like that, it’s happening a little bit more frequently to the point where like, there is a contrast to draw now. It’s not just that every team does what they did to Kris Bryant, or what they did to Jarred Kelenic.

ALEX:  True, although I also think it’s not always so black and white, right? Like it’s very well possible that Hunter Greene is up for two weeks or the month of April, and then sent right back down, right? Even if he’s a fine pitcher, which is really all the Reds need at this point, right? Like–

BOBBY:  That would be so funny.

ALEX:  –[17:00] the  window has not closed for–

BOBBY:  They made–

ALEX:  –service time manipulation.

BOBBY:  –a huge deal about him making his debut on April 10. And then they’re just like, nah, actually, April 20 I think, straight back down.

ALEX:  I mean, and and like that’s not out of the question. Like that is something we’ve seen teams do before. So–

BOBBY:  The Rays love to do that.

ALEX:  Right. So yes, I mean, certainly there are diverging philosophies. And some teams maybe are a little more intentional about either promoting their top prospects or manipulating their top prospects service time, right. As you mentioned, the Rays very good at at manipulating service time. I hate to say it, but like they they [17:41]–

BOBBY:  Any circumstances, have to hand it to the Rays, Alex.

ALEX:  Right. The the the Reds one is like the real kind of head scratcher for me.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It’s like what is the, so is your competitive window now? Do you think that Hunter Greene is going to help you kind of make that push in the next three or four years? Once again, not that I’m advocating for manipulating his service time. But I think, I definitely think some teams have a little less direction than than others when it comes to handling those those top prospects.

BOBBY:  Maybe they’re to push their competitive window back even further. Call him up. Button pitch for a year trade them in a year from now.

ALEX:  Right. The quicker he’s called up the quicker [18:29]

BOBBY:  Quicker you trade him. Yeah.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Exactly. Then you can push the window back seven years from now.

ALEX:  Right. [18:33]

BOBBY:  That actually trade him for.

ALEX:  That’s kind of the A’s mantra, right? Who I think historically, or at least in the last few years, have not monkeyed around with player service time as much as some other teams. They just call their guys up when they’re ready, because they know that the players are good now. And they’ll be able to capitalize.

BOBBY:  Yeah, why wait? You just gonna trade hime.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You’re gonna trade them in their final arb-year, either way.Whether their final arb-year happens four years from now or three years from now. Tough, tough tough for you, my friend. Bringing up Hunter Greene was really just an excuse to bring up Bob Castellini, the Carrot King himself. Alex, last week on the podcast, we joked if anybody would like to send in a jingle for Bob Castellini’s music whenever we talk about the produce God himself on the podcast. That we would pass out you know, a a free or a discounted future Patreon subscription for those people. Well, people took us up on it Alex, we got I believe five jingles without, without checking every single one at the moment. We’re going to play Shane Gas Tires jingle right here. Which is it’s it’s the shortest sweetest jingles so it’s the one we’re going to use on the podcast in the future. Shane was also the first person to submit one. So he beat everybody else to the punch. But at the end of this podcast, we will play everybody’s fold jingle to play out the pod. Here’s Shane’s wonderful Bob Castellini produce jingle.

SHANE:  He’s got, carrots and lettuce and mushrooms porcini, vegetable King Bob Castellini.

BOBBY:  It’s just so good, it’s so good, it’s exactly what I was imagining.

ALEX:  I could not have done it better myself, I really couldn’t have.

BOBBY:  You’re a musician yourself,

ALEX:  Right, I am. Inspired–

BOBBY:  Write a punk-rock version of that.

ALEX:  Right. I this, this sounded like maybe it was on on a on a ukulele but we can, we can get the plugged in version.

BOBBY:  Track that next [20:45]–

ALEX:  Inspired–

BOBBY:  –when I get back to [20:45]

ALEX:  –inspired rhyming. Right, exactly. Inspired rhyming scheme, porcini and Castellini.

BOBBY:  Castellini. Yeah, porcini, a man after my own heart naming some Italian mushrooms.

ALEX:  Shane, thank you for this. For all the times that we do reference Bob Castellini go and forward.

BOBBY:  And if you know me at all, you know, it’s gonna be very often.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Any time we reference fruits, vegetables, the–

BOBBY:  The wholesale nature of fruits–

ALEX:  [21:13], pyramid, right?

BOBBY:  [21:14]

ALEX:  As we know many a best shape of their life right now.

BOBBY:  Vitamin C.

ALEX:  In large part due to–

BOBBY:  Vitamin B-12.

ALEX:  –fruits and vegetables.

BOBBY:  Fiber, iron. Come on.

ALEX:  I can’t do it!

BOBBY:  Thank you, Shane. And thank you to everybody else who submitted one. That includes Keith and Kira. That includes Dave, that includes our good friend Austin. And then one of the person who asked not to be named, Alex. An anonymous artist, here on Tipping Pitches. We will play all of those, like I said, in full at the end of the podcast. Are you ready to do the Banned Topics of 2022

ALEX:  Yes, I think I am.

BOBBY:  So this was an idea that I had while I was sitting on the plane after listening actually, to The Edge. Because I remembered that after talking about the sign stealing scandal, just one time, you said something to the effect of I’m so sick of hearing about the Astros. And this was like 8 hours into the sign stealing scandal.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And I pulled out that audio clip. And for a couple episodes. I’m pretty sure every time the Astros came up, I played you saying, I’m so sick of hearing about the Astros, just the audio clip.

ALEX:  I’m sick of talking about the Astros, this sucks, man!

BOBBY:  I thought it might be fun, Alex, to come up with a couple lighthearted topics that we just are sick of hearing about, are sick of talking about. They’ve been played out. We don’t have takes on these anymore. There is a one year moratorium on bringing up these topics on the podcast. Are you ready?

ALEX:  Yes, I am. Let’s do this!

BOBBY:  You want to go first?

ALEX:  No! It was your idea. I, I want, want you to kick it off.

BOBBY:  All right, the first topic that I want to ban for the year. Is complaining about replay review. Just kidding! We’re gonna keep doing that all year, come on. Are you kidding me? That’s our bread and butter. No, the rule change that I want to ban for 2022 is talking about the runner on second.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  It’s happening, it’s just gonna be there. It’s going to dictate the outcome of games, Alex. It’s going to be dumb. People are going to call it a ghost runner, even though it’s not actually a ghost runner. Because there’s a person out there. And we all know from playing wiffle ball as kids, the ghost runner is when you have an imaginary guy out there that you argue about whether they would have scored or not on a hit that you head. Baseball traditionalists don’t like it. Baseball players and writers do because it shortens game lengths. And that shortens the amount of time that they have to work. I don’t think there’s any other takes to have. We’ve had them all. Agree or disagree?

ALEX:  Yeah, I agree. I I wrote this down. And I, I want to be clear. I still don’t love it. But I just don’t feel strongly enough about it to to die on this hill.

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  I, the, the argument that extra inning games happen rarely enough. So why do you feel the need to shorten them cuts both ways, which is extra inning games happen, rarely enough. And when is this really going to hurt the the viewing experience?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Correct me if I’m wrong, this this isn’t going to happen in the playoffs, right?

BOBBY:  It’s not. Which is another reason I’m okay with banning it. Because by the time playoffs roll around, the time the real baseball is here, dude. By the time the cream of the crop has rise to the top. I’m not going to have to talk about this anymore.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  So–

ALEX:  Re- regular season redux.

BOBBY:  This, this one, the one off occasion that this happens at a game that you and I go to. It’s not interesting enough for us to complain about it anymore. So one year moratorium banned, if the rule changes again next year, and we need to talk about it in 2023. We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it.

ALEX:  Yeah, I’m here for it. Yeah. Along these lines actually, we’re ju- we’re just banning all all rural change discussion.

BOBBY:  We’re banning Rob Manfred’s name.

ALEX:  And, and this is kind of it’s already been sort of shadow banned on this, on this podcast. Although we’ve slipped back into it on occasion.

BOBBY:  [25:27] people when we shadow banned things. The whole point of a shadow ban is keeping in the dark dude, come on.

ALEX:  The universal DH, I just, once again, it’s here.

BOBBY:  Oh, okay.

ALEX:  I mean–

BOBBY:  To be, wait, to be clear for the listeners. This is something I forgot to mention. Alex and I did not discuss these ahead of time. So we don’t know what the other person is banning. So there’s a chance–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –like right now that Alex is going to ban something that I want to continue to badger him about for 2022. But that’s his power, as a 50% stake holder in this podcast.

ALEX:  I just, there is nothing more to say. Once again, it’s here. I am interested, I’m interested to see what changes on the field, right? There’s going to be I would venture to guess a slight uptick in offense, given that pitchers who some of us still like to think are viable Major League hitters.

BOBBY:  Never said that.

ALEX:  Given that they wa- that they will be hitting, and they will actually have, you know, once again, good good hitters, fun hitters. I I enjoy that I’m slipping into making the argument for the universal DH as I am.

BOBBY:  It’s fine.

ALEX:  Coming out [26:43]–

BOBBY:  This is your last chance to do it, apparently, because you’re banning it.

ALEX:  I just like as, resettle there there needs to be said, right? Not a single listeners interested in you and I going back and forth about this.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Ad nauseum again and again, it’s here! This is like–

BOBBY:  [26:59]

ALEX:  –baseball traditionalists.

BOBBY:  This is like people still talking about the Supreme Court overturning the 2000 election. It happened, it’s done, it’s over. No matter which side you were on.

ALEX:  I guess that’s kind of what it’s like.

BOBBY:  I’m fine with this.

ALEX:  This also may up and the our political landscape, it–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –might we may never come back from it.

BOBBY:  We might. This, if any, if nothing else, this is good for our friendship. This is one of the few things that I actually do get kind of mad sometimes talking to you about. And you def- I can tell–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –that you get mad talking back to me. You’re like–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –I can see it in your eyes. You’re like he’s being stupid and unreasonable. And you know what? I am, I am being stupid and unreasonable. Because that’s a good way to win arguments, to make the other person mad.

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s, that’s it. I I have no more to say.

BOBBY:  Okay, fair.

ALEX:  I’m gonna pass the baton back to you.

BOBBY:  I would just like, one final thing on the universal DH. Can we–

ALEX:  Uhm, okay.

BOBBY:  –can wait till it comes for catcher’s and then for every other position, just saying.

ALEX:  Right. Again, the argument, the arguments–

BOBBY:  [27:57]

ALEX:  –[27:57] here.

BOBBY:  The slippery slope argument. It’s very powerful.

ALEX:  I too, actually can’t wait for that.

BOBBY:  Okay, back to me.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I’d like to ban Tony La Russa red ass discourse.

ALEX:  I wrote this down too.

BOBBY:  Of course you did. We’re the same person. I just want to enjoy the White Sox, you know. I just want to be able to enjoy their incredible collection of talent. The cool guys on that team. The guys I love to watch, the Eloy Jimenez, José Abreu, Lucas Giolito. On and on and on, Luis Roberts, and I just don’t need to filter it through the prism of Tony La Russa. We don’t like him. We don’t think you should have got the job. He’s a legacy hire because Jerry Reinsdorf was guilty about something from the 1980s, literally a decade, a decade before you and I were born. He has done real bad things in the world. He nearly ruined Yermin Mercedes career by being a red ass. But everybody already knows all that stuff. And I’m sick of him being this heliocentric force in the White Sox world. And I’m sure like real White Sox fans would never feel this way. But as a National Baseball fan, who just wants to sometimes come in and watch White Sox games, like they don’t have that luxury. They’ll have to deal with this day in and day out. And that sucks. But in the interest of trying to bring as much positivity to the National Baseball fans discourse. I just wanna talk about the players. I’m done talking about Tony La Russa. Unless, you know I don’t wanna- unless something like different happens with might something more serious and event happens with him. But I don’t want to talk about him as like this crotchety old manager who doesn’t fit the young fun vibe of the White Sox. That strain of that conversation for me is is over that was 2020 and parts of 2021 but not 2022.

ALEX:  Right. I want to, I want to clarify with this segment like there are things that are going to happen this year and the years to follow that neither of us will be able to predict and it will be someone unavoidable to a a reference. But there are also a lot of strains of discussion that kind of [30:06] over the same path. That, I think you and I tire ourselves out yelling about it. And, and then from time to time we’ve even had someone jump into our mentions and say, guys, it’s time to move on. You can’t, you can’t still be mad about this thing. And and while my reflexive response to that is I, you better believe I can still be mad about it. I I begrudgingly admit that sometimes it’s it’s right. It’s better to just close your eyes and and enjoy things–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –you know. And the White Sox are one of those things when there is a lot of noise happening around them. The the on field product of baseball that they put out, is supremely enjoyable. And like maybe that, maybe that should be the narrative around the White Sox.

BOBBY:  Yes, this does not mean we can’t say Tony La Russa’s name. This does not mean we can’t talk about a pitching change that he made or anything like that. That is not what I’m talking about. I’m se- I’m specifically talking about his personality fit with the wider world of baseball in 2022. Banned! Banned! What’s next?

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, I’m on board with it. Next up for me, hat discourse.

BOBBY:  Hmm.. Good one.

ALEX:  This is, this was something that really, I feel like bubbled up at multiple points throughout last year, the last couple of years, really. Largely related to some of New Era’s, shall we say, questionable, artistic choices. And I love clowning on a clip art ass design as much as the next guy on Twitter. But I think I’ve also come to accept at this point, the Ne- New Era is a bit of just a volume shooter, you know.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  When you go to their website, and you look at the the shirts that they have, or the hats that they have, if you go to the MLB shop, it is such a mishmash of designs and and options that you kind of just have to accept that they most likely are not presenting every design as as a piece of art as the pinnacle of hatsminship. I don’t know. All you need, if you, if you toss out, you know, half a dozen designs over the course of a month and one hits. That’s really all you need. I think like from a business perspective, there, it’s probably relatively inexpensive for them. And and for the listeners who are interested, we did a whole podcast about this. About the, the kind of economics and the cultural cachet behind fitted caps.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And like–

BOBBY:  Listen to the podcast, Mr. Sugar Penis.

ALEX:  It just, I feel like it doesn’t make sense for myself to get up in arms over something that ultimately doesn’t actually impact my, the the way that I take in the sport in–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –any way.

BOBBY:  It’s not like fascist New Eras, forcing every baseball fan to wear their hats.

ALEX:  Right. And even, even the bad ones, even some of the bad ones are so bad that they are kind of good, or at least entertaining enough. I don’t know. I, I don’t want to swear off talking about uniform designs and aesthetic on field choices entirely right. For example, the Washington Nationals just recently announced their their City Connect jerseys of which the theme is Washington, D.C.’s cherry blossoms blooming. With nods to kind of the architectural style of Washington, DC. And that’s cool. And I even get tired about talking about the City Connect jerseys sometimes. But I think we actually try to do our best to talk about like the style of baseball when it actually matters. And more often than not the the New Era cap designs that come out, don’t really matter. That’s it, I think.

BOBBY:  I think that’s a good take. Uhm, you raise an interesting question. What do you think about, are these topics banned for the podcast? Or are they banned for the podcast and Twitter? Are they–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –banned for Tipping Pitches media or just the Tipping Pitches Podcast?

ALEX:  See, similar to New Era, I think we’re, we’re slight volume shooters on Twitter–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –as well.

BOBBY:  Yes, we are, mostly me. You don’t, you don’t shoot with volume that often.

ALEX:  Right, I I I pick and choose my shots.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. Some say you should shoot more though.

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  That’s Steph Curry only shot three times a game, the Warriors be the worst team in the league.

ALEX:  Something tells me it will be hard for us both to show self-restraint if something like this comes up in passing. But I  I gue- I guess it depends on the topic, right? I don’t see myself doing a 20–

BOBBY:  [35:12]

ALEX:  –I don’t see myself doi- doing a Tony La Russa thread.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But I just no, no thoughts there. And I really don’t see myself doing a New Era hats thread again.

BOBBY:  You know, we did so many of those. Okay, so so you–

ALEX:  And also, [35:28] we are responsive to the culture, right?

BOBBY:  Right, right.

ALEX:  If the discourse is there, what do we do?

BOBBY:  So, so your answer is you’ll make a good faith effort to stay off these topics on Twitter. Okay, I can do the same. Is it my turn now?

ALEX:  Yeah, I think so.

BOBBY:  I would like to ban discussing individual players NFT Grift.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  Like–

ALEX:  This is see, see, like, here’s one that’s going to be tough for me.

BOBBY:  Okay. Oh, so you’re going to veto?

ALEX:  Well, I’m not going to veto, but I may, I may choose to engage with it in other ways, right. The it’s this podcast is not a platform for it.

BOBBY:  Okay. Okay. So this is a half-ban, then. We banned on the podcast because there’s, it’s not as fun to make fun of NF T’s in audio form because it’s way funnier to do it on Twitter by just copy and pasting it and being like, Thanks for the NFT!

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That joke never gets old.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But for the podcast purposes, I’ll leave it open for you on Twitter writing this into the bill. For podcast purposes, I just don’t want to talk about if a player has new NFT partnership. It’s just bleak, boring, uninteresting, we get it. Everybody wants to participate in a multi-level marketing scheme at first.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  It all sounds really good. Right after you get to college. How many of your high school friends are coming back with you coming back to you with an MLM in your Facebook DMs. A not insignificant amount of them.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. You and I lived across the street from one for a year.

BOBBY:  We did?

ALEX:  Yeah, that that was an Herbalife facility right there, bro.

BOBBY:  Oh, Herbalife. I thought you’re talking about like, another NYU student was just running out of a dorm. And I was like, what the fuck?!

ALEX:  Well, I don’t, I don’t know who the franchise manager was of that Herbalife, so it was in Bushwick. So there’s a decent chance.

BOBBY:  But for the podcast purposes, I just don’t want to talk about Taijuan Walker’s apes. You know, I don’t want to talk about Fernando Tatis is Dogecoin. It’s not interesting. It’s not, it’s not, it’s not, banned, banned for 2022. Now, if the league does some kind of intense overture as a system as an institution with NFT’s that really rises to the level that it’s like, okay, this is concerning. Like this might bankrupt Major League Baseball. We’ll talk about it. But individual players inking deals with NFT companies. No, out for me.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think when it gets down to the individual player level, it gets a little more sad than it is bleak, you know. Like it more just makes me a little bummed to see a player who I might otherwise have have great respect and admiration for get pulled into something that’s so obviously a Grift.

BOBBY:  Right. They do play for Major League Baseball teams. So–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  They’ve already been pulled into one Grift.

ALEX:  They have. Yeah, no, there’s no there’s no one players venture into NFTs that I think really warrants a capital D discussion. Now, if Jeff Passan gets hacked again. Or better yet, if he makes the active choice to go into NFTs. I’m not sure we’ll be able to stay away from that.

BOBBY:  You’re right. This is a fluid law.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You know, sometimes it’s about the spirit, not the letter.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  The the Supreme Court for the Tipping Pitches Banneds, make a ruling. Can we talk about Jeff Passan, Jeff Passan’s Ethereum coin. I don’t know. The listeners are the highest court in the land when it comes to these things. They’ll let us know if we’ve crossed the line. And we’ll make them–

ALEX:  Right. I have the utmost faith in them to to hold us accountable.

BOBBY:  Okay, what’s next? I only have one more after this.

ALEX:  This is, this is my last one. And it’s a bit of a layup. It may not even really count. Given that we have reached the baseball season, we’re at the point where we no longer need to talk about Bob Nightengale or or reference his musings on the world of Baseball.

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  They have, they have, they have made for interesting fodder in the past, they have.

BOBBY:  You’re right. This is a controversial one.

ALEX:  It is a bit of a controversial one and I, we’re gonna have to see how long we can keep it up. Because when he drops a column–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –the column is there for us, right?

BOBBY:  It’s gonna be tempting. It’s gonna, it’s gonna be calling our names. Sometimes Alex gives his toughest challenges to our strongest listeners.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Those of us–

ALEX:  The devil, the devil–

BOBBY:  –comes for you. Those of us who want to hear Bob Nightengale jokes, who are just dying for it. Maybe Alex is telling us that we need to move on. We need to strive for something higher plane. And I respect you for that. I respect you for that.

ALEX:  He obviously is an unavoidable part of Baseball Twitter and Baseball discourse. But I think his, his tweets, especially, I just kind of wonder how long the the bit can go on, you know, of him being bad at his job. Like every time we, he he makes a tweet about a transaction, about something that has happened on or off the field. I’m kind of like, this has to be the the straw that breaks the camel’s back, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Like you can’t actually, he can’t keep getting away with this, right?

BOBBY:  Okay, so you’re banning it because the bid is too played out.

ALEX:  I think so. This is the one that’s, that’s I’m really wrestling with internally, too.

BOBBY:  Okay. Yeah. With great power comes great responsibility, Alex.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  Like we can’t get up here and stab our listeners in the back by banning Alex Rodriguez. That guy’s a content fountain.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Yeah, but I think, I think Bob’s takes are often relatively mailed in and, I don’t know. I think mainly, what I’m saying is I’d like to see us diversify our content–

BOBBY:  Portfolio.

ALEX:  –streams, are portfolio when it comes to the the wild world of perpetually wrong Baseball writers.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Because I think, I think there’s more out there to be mined. And I’m wondering if maybe, Bob Nightengale has, has kind of reached his peak there, right? He he gave us the pinnacle of the lockout, right?

BOBBY:  Right, that’s true.

ALEX:  On that, on that fateful night.

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  I’m almost, I almost think is it, is it time for him to hang them up?

BOBBY:  We’re retiring Bob on top.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That’s a good one. This is a good one. You made a compelling argument. I wasn’t sure at first, but I’m in.

ALEX:  All right, okay.

BOBBY:  No–

ALEX:  What’s your last one?

BOBBY:  –no more Nightengale 2022, banned, for the podcast. I do not commit to banning quote cards of his typos on Twitter. I don’t commit–

ALEX:  That’s–

BOBBY:  –to that.

ALEX:  That’s, that’s fair. Okay.

BOBBY:  My final one. Is I am banning the, “Is baseball dying?” question. I am banning, “Our baseball players boring”. “Is it just not interesting enough?” “Do kids think Mike Trout is boring because he only talks about weather?” I’m banning that. We can’t talk about that anymore. We’ve been talking about that, literally since like the third episode of this podcast. And I’m sick of it, I’m sick of it. We can talk about, we are still allowed. As the, as the Congressman drafting this bill, we are still allowed to talk about, “Is MLB trying to kill the sport?” Obviously, this is Tipping Pitches. But I’m no longer interested in doing the ESPN talking head version of, “Is Baseball dying because it’s too slow and boring?” Because it one it’s not. Two, it’s not for any of the reasons that any of these people are saying. It is, it’s much more because of the economic structures and power concentrations of the game, as we talk about all the time. And three, like Baseball is as as good and talented and deep of a league as it ever has been. There’s no sense in wasting oxygen, having the same conversation all the time. Just, I want to live in the season and actually enjoy it. Maybe that’s a threat of these for me, like going back to the Tony [43:53] so one, I’m not interested. I want to shed that weight of all of these discourse cycles that we continually have all of the time. And I want to just be like, you know, what’s cool baseball? I like it. Is it dying? No. All right, conversation over.

ALEX:  Right. This is one of those topics that actually is relatively easily debunked, right? Like the, the argument is usually made anecdotally, rather than based on things like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –how many people are actually watching Baseball games.

BOBBY:  My friends three kids, you know what they like? Fortnite. You know what they love? FaZe Clan. It’s like, okay, like, okay, cool. My friend has three kids, they all play The Little League, you know?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Great.

ALEX:  Yeah. And I also think that, I I mean, I just don’t think the argument is often made in good faith. Like if you think Baseball is dying, you’re probably not watching the the right things.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like if you’re actually watching the games, if you’re actually, actually watching some of the players who are on the field right now, you very well could make case that this game has never been better set up to serve the future, right? And as you mentioned, it’s another question of whether or not Major League Baseball is interested in passing on that torch to the younger gener- generation of baseball fans. And there’s a real conversation to be had about accessibility of Baseball to the the modern American family.

BOBBY:  Yes. But that’s not, to be clear. And maybe this is really splitting hairs. And it’s obviously like, this is a made up thing that we’re doing here. But to be clear, I don’t really want to ban that because I think like–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –talking about openly, how inaccessibility of the sport is really killing it. In the long run, is a really important thing? That’s near and dear to my heart. But talking about it in the context of baseball is old hat. Baseball is the 20th century. Baseball is no longer capturing the hearts and souls of America. I’m not, I’m not interested in doing that anymore. I just the people who think that are already gone, and that’s fine. Goodbye. You know, you might have left for honest reasons, or you might have left for dishonest reasons. I don’t really care anymore.

ALEX:  Yeah, good pick. I’m on board with that.

BOBBY:  Thank you. That concludes the 2022 Banned Topics for Tipping Pitches. To recap for me. I have banned runner on second discourse. I have banned Tony La Russa red ass discourse. I have banned individual players NFT Grifts and I have banned, “Is Baseball dying?” Do you want to do yours?

ALEX:  Yes I banneds whining about the universal DH on both our parts. I think we could, we could maybe both uses annex when it comes to that. Banned, New Era hat discourse. Uninterested, if you like the hat, you’re allowed to like the hat. If not, that’s fine, too.

BOBBY:  Alex had what you do in the privacy of your own head? Not my problem.

ALEX:  And Bob Nightengale, I think, I think we can, we can do better, you know. I think it’s time for him to–

BOBBY:  I’m playing him out with tabs right here.

ALEX:  Please do. Yes, I think there it’s time for some younger writers to really come in and, and take over for him. I think that’s it, I feel good about that.

BOBBY:  I like it. It’s a good list. I hope listeners enjoyed this segment. I have no idea if it’s funny or not.

ALEX:  I also hope that we’re able to stay true to this. And again, I want you the listeners to let us know if we if we run astray when it comes to these self-imposed rules. Because we do rely on on you to to keep us in line. And and you all often do a very good job about that. So call us on our bullshit.

BOBBY:  We’re gonna take a quick break. And when we come back, we’ll do a couple questions from you the listeners.

[47:58]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  All right, Alex, got three listener questions to close this out right here. Just a reminder, if you’d like to write in, call in, DM in tipping_pitches on Twitter, tippingpitchespod@gmail.com. Our voicemail line is 785-422-5881. You can get us in any of those ways. And have your question either read or played on the podcast. The first question we have today is a really fun question, particularly for this time in the baseball calendar. This comes from Nick’s Knee. And they asked with baseball starting up next week, which teams would you recommend watching for someone with no real Baseball experience? Either for interesting players or just likely to have good games. Now in the past, Alex, you and I did, we bandwagons teams by randomly selecting them. We’re not going to do that this year, because I don’t really think we did a good job of it, to be honest. We’re just gonna continue to pick and choose players that and teams that have interesting narratives that become lovable throughout the season. As well as obviously we’re for our own teams. Although I know that you considered potentially banning talking about the Oakland Athletics on the podcast. And I even considered banning them for you as–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –a gesture of goodwill so that you wouldn’t have to talk about them on the podcast. But this is a great question. Did you, did you have any teams that came immediately to mind when you saw this?

ALEX:  There are definitely some obvious ones, right? The the Dodgers are an easy pick because they might have, you know, one of the greatest teams ever assembled. Which makes for an enjoyable watching experience. The Mets are going to be incredibly interesting to watch this year because it feels kind of like a make or break is the wrong way of putting it. But they are at a point in their franchises that they have not been at in a few years. And I think a lot of eyes are going to be watching them to see kind of where, where this goes.

BOBBY:  I’m glad you chose them because I wrote them down too. And I didn’t want it to sound like I was being a homer, but they have so many interesting players.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Like, they made that huge trade for Lindor ;ast year, he kind of had a bad start to his Mets career. But he could and likely will bounce back, I hope. The Scherzer signing obviously makes them the rotation, even just in a different league. Then deGrom, hopefully he can stay healthy for the whole year. He’s the most exciting, I think player to watch in Baseball when he plays. And then all of the signings and the corner outfield positions and all of that stuff and all the spending and all the Steve Cohen aspects of it. I think that they are really interesting and fun.

ALEX:  Then you get to teams like the Minnesota Twins. And the Toronto Blue Jays.

BOBBY:  Great one.

ALEX:  Who are made some real big splashes this offseason, right? Whether it’s someone like Carlos Correa or someone like Matt Chapman.

BOBBY:  Ooh!

ALEX:  The Blue Jays like already had a kind of core of really fun players and only added to them this offseason. Which I mean, kind of makes them favorites for the AL East at this point.

BOBBY:  Interesting. Good take. I like that. Getting out there first.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. [51:32]

BOBBY:  Although Rays and the Yankees

ALEX:  Yeah. Well, I mean, it remains to be seen whether or not the Yankees still exist by the end of the season, right? I mean [51:41]–

BOBBY:  Oh, right. The pressures on.

ALEX:  The Rangers are the one of the most fascinated by.

BOBBY:  Interesting.

ALEX:  I just still kind of can’t quite make heads or tails of. Like I, I have, as someone who does not analyze baseball, actually professionally for a living. I have no clue what to make of their team, right? They have a a $500 million middle infield, right. Two amazingly fun players to watch and Corey Seager and Marcus Semien. And then like a bunch of other dudes–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –also.

BOBBY:  I just don’t think the Rangers are gonna play that many interesting games because they don’t have–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –they haven’t almost no pitching.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  So I don’t think they’re gonna be very good. I think Semien and Seagar are obviously interesting. But I think that’s more of a bone for the fans that are already there. Like I I would wait a couple of years to really hop on the Rangers train. That a couple teams that I wrote down that you did not mention. The Padres, hopefully are going to get everyone back from injury. At some point, Tatis will come back after his wrist injury and hopefully he won’t miss a beat. I know that we spent so much time talking about the Padres last year and the year before in the pandemic shortened season. But they, they figure to be very interesting as well. Yu Darvish is among the most fun pitchers to watch since you and I have been born. I think the Mariners are pretty interesting. Like they got pretty close on some some total devil magic last year. With like a extreme negative run differential, but a really good record. But I actually think that they’ve made significant improvements to their team in this offseason. They’re all one year older. You know, you figured Kelenic- Kelenic will be better than he was when he was first called up. Hopefully, I don’t know how he could be worse. You cross your fingers that maybe Julio will come up at some point. I don’t really know. I I don’t know exactly what his landing time looks like. And then the other team that I wrote down beside for the Mets have already mentioned, and you already mentioned, the Phillies. The last part of this question for interesting players or just likely to have good games. I think the Phillies are the team that is most likely to have the most interesting games this year. They have an unbelievable lineup, that will score a ton of runs and hit a ton of homeruns. And they have questionable starting pitching and extremely questionable bullpen pitching. So they might build a 10 run lead and below it. Like multiple times per week. And they also have bad defense too. So that’ll make for kind of like interesting circus ball style games. I would, I would check out the Phillies. And it’d be easy if you want to hop on the Mets bandwagon as well because they’ll play each other 17 times this year, 19 times or whatever it actually is. Plus, it’s never a bad idea to watch every Nick Castellanos at bat. You just–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –you just need to be aware of what’s going on when Castellanos is at the plate. It’s like push news noti- it’s like breaking news push notifications when he hits.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah, I mean, it’s helpful that the NL East is actually a somewhat competitive division or at the very least, I think you can pick reasons off of all five of those teams to be interested in watching some of their games. The Marlins have an interesting rotation. Juan Soto is the best–

BOBBY:  Wow, Juan Soto.

ALEX:  –player. Right. And really, I think, I think you could, you could throw a dart and and hit most of those teams. And at the very least, you’re probably going to watch some interesting baseball games throughout the year just due to the fact that they’re going to to play each other a lot.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Thank you for writing in with that question. It was a good one. Perfectly timed for this time of year. Next question comes from Mica. Mica writes in as a Guardians fan. My condolences Micah, tough couple years. And Mica wants to know if something like what the Guardians are doing right now. Which is trading away a lot of players. Not spending any money, extremely low payroll, but still incredibly good at player development. And incredibly good at keeping a couple really good guys on the roster at all times. He names Shane Bieber, and Jose Ramirez right now. Mica says, “I feel like that’s almost worse than what teams like the A’s are doing with trading everyone have value. Or is it just equally bad, but in a different way?” I wanted to hear what you had to say about this, Alex, because obviously, you are an A’s fan. So you’re in direct contrast here to what Mica is saying. What do you make of a total fire sale, and the promise of the future of getting back a lot of prospects like you did in the Matt Olson trade? Versus what’s going on in Cleveland, which is hanging on to a guy like Bieber, hanging on to a guy like Ramirez. Ostensibly so that the fans still have something to root for or so that you can shift back into a competitive window. If if a couple more guys turn out to be better than you thought. What do you make of that distinction?

ALEX:  I mean, these mostly feel like two sides of the same coin to me, right? Because Jose Ramirez is in Cleveland now. And there’s a very decent chance that he’s not in three months. I think you’re right, that oftentimes in these cases, it is more fan service. It’s a desire to not alienate everyone, all at once.

BOBBY:  Yeah, find the line, but don’t cross it too fast.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. And I think the A’s have a little more going on with their search for a stadium and a real kind of vested interest in showing that they’re not competitive, and they have no fans. Because there’s something else that they’re angling for. I I see the point on this question, right? That it’s, it’s disappointing to watch teams who ostensibly are good at evaluating players and developing players. Not actually invest in that. But I also think that’s maybe not as rare as it seems. I think just different teams let that evolve to varying kind of points on that timeline, right? Like I don’t necessarily know that the Pirates are any worse at evaluating players than the Guardians. They may be worse at developing say, pitchers. But every couple of years there are still a crop of Pirates players who it’s easy to get somewhat excited about. And then obviously they end up getting shipped off, shipped off. So, I don’t know–

BOBBY:  Their definitely worse a developing pitchers. That is–

ALEX:  They are, they are definitely worse at developing pitchers. Yes.

BOBBY:  I feel about his confidence in saying that as anything on the planet. Cleveland is the best organization at developing starting pitchers in baseball right now.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And I don’t really think it’s close. The Rays develop their relievers into very, very specific mold and a lot of their starters, too.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  But what the Rays are good at doing is looking at other organizations, and picking off people who they think that they could turn into good starters, who are floundering. Picking on teams like the Pirates getting Tyler Glass now. And turning them into an amazing player. Cleveland just trashed these guys. And like five years later, four years later, they’re like a Cy Young contender, almost without fail. It’s ridiculous.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think the Astros maybe come close there as well.

BOBBY:  Yeah. But but Cleveland like Kluber–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –Bieber, Clevinger, Plesac–

ALEX:  Plesac.

BOBBY:  Carrasco. It’s just unbelievable what they do. So I simply–

ALEX:  McKenzie.

BOBBY:  Yeah, Triston McKenzie. I I sympathize with Mica’s question. I I agree that it might feel slightly different. The framing of it if they trade Jose Ramirez, which there was some rumors, although there was also kind of like extension rumors at the same time. They did just trade Francisco Lindor last year. So it’s not like they’re not doing similar things to what the A’s did in selling high on players before they have to pay them in earnest. I think hanging on to a couple guys who are franchise cornerstones is better than what the A’s do, honestly. Like, who, who is the threat for the A’s? [1:00:05] Ramirez stays, or if they extend him, then he becomes the guy who you rooted for for the entirety of like a decade of your life. And honestly, do you have that guy? As an A’s fan? Is there a decade of your life where you rooted, where your favorite player stayed on your team?

ALEX:  Stephen Vogt was on the A’s, like, you know, eight years ago, and then left, and now he’s back. Does that count?

BOBBY:  Are you actively rooting for him in the interim? And you weren’t rooting for him to fail? But like, you know, but you–

ALEX:  No, I–

BOBBY:  –know, I mean no, like–

ALEX:  –right, yeah.

BOBBY:  –only ever for your windows for the A’s. And I don’t think that’s really good for anyone.

ALEX:  Right. I think it’s a lot more enjoyable. Again, to the extent that you can enjoy teams not putting an effort. It’s enjoyable to at least have, like you said, a couple threads throughout the, the course of a team’s window, so to speak.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Because it at least gives you a chance to also familiarize yourself with that next generation of players while still having something to enjoy on the field, right? If you’re consistently having to look to the future and reacquaint yourself with prospects, you never really got to know super well, anyway. It’s hard to like actively want to tune in to that.

BOBBY:  Yeah, put it this way. The only thing that got me from Mike Piazza to Jacob deGrom is David Wright. That’s it. There’s nothing else in between. I mean, there are obviously like a few guys–

ALEX:  [1:01:45] Jason Bay.

BOBBY:  Come on, come on. There are a few guys here and there for a couple of years in between. But in the time period between those two guys. The keystone of my Mets fandom was David Wright. And I think more franchises should have that. I think you think that too.

ALEX:  I agree that more franchises should have David Wright’s, that’s–

BOBBY:  Yeah. He’s pretty good. He’s pretty good at baseball. Okay.

ALEX:  Universal basic David Wright. All right, what’s the last question?

BOBBY:  That’s way funnier to me than it really probably is, but it’s gonna keep laughing. Okay, final question, this comes from Ian. Ian asks, a non-economics question says, “Your comments a few pods ago comparing the PR bonus pool to how the NBA does their supermax contracts got me thinking. Are there features of other sports who would like to see introduced into MLB?” I think Ian has a really good idea here that he follows up on and says, “Personally, I think interleague tournaments, with Korean or Japanese Baseball could be pretty cool. Or even a mini tournament between AL and NL teams halfway through the season. Like right after the All-Star break.” I think both of those are really cool ideas. I’m working on this podcast right now, talking about the history of the NBA. And one of the things that they did when they were trying to internationally grow basketball was that in the offseason, the NBA would fly like a collection of like 10 or 12. of the best players in the league. They would fly them around to play exhibition games against a countries like best- countries like international Olympics team, or whatever. And they would just play like one exhibition game. And then they would like meet a bunch of fans. And I think that similar to what Ian is saying, that’s basically what would happen if they did interleague tournaments with to KBO or the NPB in Korea and Japan. That’s a, that’s a wonderful idea. I don’t know that I can even really top it. Are there things from other sports that you see often and you’re like, wow, I wish baseball did more of that.

ALEX:  Would require me to watch other sports. This is slightly unrelated. But I don’t know if you heard about the MLB Home Run Derby Acts, right? Which is the recently announced, a recently announced tournament that will feature former stars traveling around various cities around–

BOBBY:  Uhm.

ALEX:  –the world.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  Competing in a Home Run Derby featuring stars like Giovanni Soto.

BOBBY:  Just a banger.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Jonny Gomes.

BOBBY:  Ohh!

ALEX:  Adrian Gonzalez.

BOBBY:  He was good.

ALEX:  Nick Swisher.

BOBBY:  King.

ALEX:  King.

BOBBY:  One thing about Nick Swisher, that dude’s available. He’s all over the place, he’s doing a lot! Iron, irons in a lot of fires for Mr. Swisher.

ALEX:  This is kind of a non-answer, but I like the ideas of the sort of exhibition games in a typical places, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I know we, we did the Field of Dreams game. And that’s cool. Okay, that’s a nod to like a very kind of specific niche baseball interest. But, and, and this is not a new idea. But I think playing games, in other locales where baseball is massive, would be really fascinating, right? And this is already something that is being talked about. Right, playing games in Mexico, playing games in England. Major League Baseball released a short list of places where they plan to, to play some exhibition type games in the future. And they named like, cities, they named–

BOBBY:  Region countries.

ALEX:  –countries. They named Asia.

BOBBY:  Just Asia.

ALEX:  Just, just Asia, right?

BOBBY:  They’re gonna play a game in Asia, we’re not sure where yet she’s gonna have to find it, no address, you just go over there. You ask around you say, you know where anybody in Asia, you know where MLB is playing today?

ALEX:  But I think that’s a really great way to not only broaden appeal for Major League Baseball, world wide. But also offer a window into markets that might experience and appreciate Baseball in a very different way than we might. That’s why I enjoy the the exhibition games that the the A’s and Mariners often do in Japan–

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  –in the you know, at the start of the season. I don’t know if you saw that. At the the the Japanese teams, Nippon-Ham Fighters, home opener. The, the manager for the the Fighters, one Tsuyoshi Shinjo. Sorry, that is, that is big boss, Tsuyoshi Shinjo flew in on a hovercraft.

BOBBY:  I didn’t know we have that–

ALEX:  That, that Rob–

BOBBY:  –level of hovercraft technology,

ALEX:  I, I really didn’t. But the fact is that–

BOBBY:  I thought it was, wait, I gotta say more about that. I thought it was just gonna come like three feet off the ground. That dude was–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –like 50 feet in the air.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We we–

ALEX:  Just like flying around–

BOBBY:  –have flying cars now? We have them.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I was led to believe when I was a kid that flying cars were going to be a way more monumental achievement when we got them. This guy has it. And he’s flying around a baseball stadium with a flying car. And I just don’t know about it. I just didn’t know about that.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Why? Why? Thanks a lot in New York Times, send another push notification for your think pieces about canceled culture, why don’t you? No, tell me about flying cars. Democracy dies in darkness.

ALEX:  Right, I mean, this is just another example where America is woefully behind just the rest of the world. Anyway, that was, that was not a really direct answer to the questions because–

BOBBY:  Flying cars.

ALEX:  But I I do think my answer is engaging with the more global aspects of the sport. Because despite Manfred’s interest in creating Baseball that is defined through the prism of Major League Baseball, the company, there’s far more to what Baseball actually is then than that. And I think it is just service to the fans that we don’t often get to experience that, right. That we were only able to watch KBO games on ESPN, because there just happened to be no Major League Baseball at the time in 2022.

BOBBY:  Two things, both from soccer. I’d like to steal international friendlies. That being exhibition games between national teams in preparation of when those national teams will have to play in events like the World Cup. I think friendlies in a weird way, are actually really fun to watch. Because they’re not as competitive, and they’re not as serious. And it gives you kind of a chance to like see players in a light that you don’t always see them. Which is working on something that they’re afraid to work on in games. Which is playing with a collection of teammates that they don’t always play with. Playing for a manager that they don’t always play with. So that’s one. That was less important to me than the second one. The second one that I would like to steal from soccer. This is actually from Club Soccer is the transfer window. Do you know what the transfer window is Alex?

ALEX:  I do not.

BOBBY:  Transfer window is a one-month period that happens two times a year, so two total months, one month installments. And it’s the only period that trades can happen. And because it’s the only period that trades can happen. They all happen in a flurry. And it incentivizes teams in international soccer. It’s almost like an arms race, where you start to see other teams, right when the transfer window starts, go out and get a guy and it sets the tone for what their competitors need to go out and get. And it it incentivizes all of this crazy spending, which I know is not obviously a one to one comparison because Club Soccer is just money laundering in most of the world. But and in many cases money laundering for governments. But I think it would be way cooler. If we had a more defined period in the offseason, where all of this free agency stuff happened. And even if you don’t do it like soccer, even if you don’t do a whole month. If you made the transfer window like two weeks, I know GMs would hate it. I know owners would never vote for it. But if I have the power to wave a magical wand, that would drum up a lot of interest in Baseball. In the time of the year where people don’t talk a lot about Baseball, because of Basketball, and because of Football, and because of whatever else they’re doing the holidays, that kind of thing. And then you could still keep the trade deadline, you, that would just be the last day of the second transfer window of the calendar.

ALEX:  So, so would you say then that like, you can make trades for the month of January, and you can make trades for the month of July? I’m into it. I mean, we I think we talked about this a little bit on the eve of the lockout, right. Which effectively acted as an offseason trade deadline. And I think some people were comparing to the NBA, right? When trades actually open up after a certain point. And you see these flurry.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  It is like an event–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –right? Where there is a day, where shit just goes down, it hits the fan.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It’s going down and hitting the fan. Both directions.

BOBBY:  It’s going up, down, left, right.

ALEX:  I think you’re right, I think event-tising kind of some of the more transactional nature of Baseball. Which to some extent, already exists. But putting kind of boundaries on it may lead to more heightened interest when those, those periods are actually opening.

BOBBY:  Plus, I think it would incentivize teams to actually make their competitive moves, and not toe, that same line of we’ll see how the first couple months of the season goes, you know. Cuz’ you can’t actually do that, you can’t fire sale in May, if you get out to a slow start. You have to wait till the trade deadline or you, you know, you have to wait till the second transfer window. And then all of a sudden, the market for your guy might not be as high because everybody else is trying to train people at that same time. It just, there’s a lot of stuff in there that could make it a lot more interesting than it is now. This would obviously never happened because it would be such a big logistical hurdle to institute a system like this. But this is the kind of thing that like a real Commissioner would think about and try to advocate for.

ALEX:  Yeah, I I’m into the idea. I think I have to think about it a little bit more. Because I, you know, who among us doesn’t love the the random late May trade of a star–

BOBBY:  Salary dump.

ALEX:  –you know, that happens at like, 11pm?

BOBBY:  Well, you you workshop it and you circle back, you circle back with me later.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And we’ll, we’ll brainstorm together, we’ll put our heads together.

ALEX:  Right. We’re doing the work that Rob Manfred is too afraid to do.

BOBBY:  Okay, I think that does it for this week’s episode of Tipping Pitches. Next week, Alex, you All-GIF Draft. It’s coming. Not quite sure who’s gonna be on it just yet, because it’s been a hectic couple weeks. But we will have an All-GIF Draft next week. It will promise to be absurd and fun, just like all of our All-GIF Drafts. And that’s not even self-aggrandizing for me to say because it’s mostly absurd and fun because of the amazing list of guests who say yes to coming and doing that with us. If you don’t know what the All-GIF Draft is, it’s our way of previewing the season where we select players who we think are most likely to produce the best gifts, moving images, GIFs, GIFs of the 2022 season, you can go back and check out last year’s. It always comes out right around when the season starts. Anything else leave the people with Alex? Or should we just start playing some Castellini jingles right now?

ALEX:  I want to hear some Castellini jingles, I’m so ready for this.

BOBBY:  Thanks everyone for listening. We’ll see you next week.

JINGLE 1:  Losing games with Bob Castellini. He made his living selling carrots and beef. Tanken every season so by June they work [1:14:12] it’s the Cincinnati Reds.

JINGLE 2:  He’s got carrots, some cheese. Stalks of fresh broccoli. Castellini, sign [1:14:37] now CBA, just to trade Sonny Gray, Castellini. Reds will take you to the bank you’ve got, Oh Bob [1:14:50] Castellini. [1:14:56] new CBT [1:14:58] salary, Castellini.

JINGLE 3:  Bob Bob Bob Bob, Bob chemin. Bob Bob Bob Bob, Bob chemin, Bob Bob Bob Bob, Bob chemin. Bob, Bob, Bob Castellini [1:15:20].

JINGLE 4:  Tomatoes, [1:15:30], chevies and potatoes. [1:15:32] favorite [1:15:35].

[1:15:36]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMarch 31, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:Bob Castellini, cincinnati reds, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on The 2022 Tipping Pitches Banned Topics	
Need A Trench Coat?

Alex and Bobby attempt to parse Phil Mushnick’s sprawling metaphor for New York sports teams, discuss the dizzying flurry of player movement in the last week and what it has revealed about some teams, a labor win for minor leaguers last week, then answer listener questions about their playing days, advertisements on uniforms, the nonexistence of the Phillies’ defense, how their consumption of the game has changed over time, and more.

Links:

Judge rules MLB violated wage law with minor leaguers 

Wilco — “Sunken Treasure” • Hitoshi Sato — “Say Goodbye” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, there was a lot of good feeling recently, in the last week about Baseball being back. Lockout over spring training, returning. We saw Major League Baseball players in uniform on baseball fields.

ALEX:  Yeah, I didn’t recognize any of my guys, personally.

BOBBY:  Well, you probably did recognize them on different teams wearing different uniforms.

ALEX:  That’s fair. Yes, you’re right. It was, it was a little surreal, like getting lineup notifications.

BOBBY:  I know, ho- MLB home run notifications?

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Yeah. But despite all of that joy, our old friend, old, one of our oldest friends on the podcast, Alex, he found something very tried and true to complain about. This friend that I’m talking about is of course Phil Mushnik Do you see this? Go–

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  –you’re out making the rounds on Twitter?

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  I think we just have to do a bad take dramatic reading. I saw this–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –I saw this New York Post article from the original bad take dramatic reading artists himself–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –Phil Mushnik, for those who have been listening for four years now.

ALEX:  Right, this is real tipping heads.

BOBBY:  That’s what we’re calling them.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  New York teams make effort to find players who make no effort. That’s the headline.

ALEX:  Amazing.

BOBBY:  Alex, clues generally come in two sizes, small and those that are dead giveaways.

ALEX:  Wait so–

BOBBY:  [2:03] large–

ALEX:  [2:03] clues–

BOBBY:  –they can be seen from outer space.

ALEX:  Clues.

BOBBY:  Outerspace, clues.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Clues come in two sizes.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  Just to review, small and those that are dead giveaways, those are the two sizes. We’re now into the second paragraph.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Steal yourself. During World War II. I saw someone underneath it, be like I tapped out after I saw the phrase World War II. That’s like the 15th word in–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –the article. During World War II, Joseph Stalin’s spy masters, established a front in Brussels. They named the foreign excellent trench coat company. After all, what self respecting spy could operate without a trench coat? Just a reminder, this is an article about Baseball.

ALEX:  It has big like, I I read a Wikipedia article last night and kind of just want to incorporate it–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –energy.

BOBBY:  Yet for some reason, perhaps the inability to provide trench coats. The foreign excellent trench coat factory was a bust. And that naturally, naturally, brings us to Gotham’s professional teams, and the inability of its management’s. We really need a copy pass on this like really badly. To see what’s coming, then wait too long to seek a remedy.

ALEX:  What is this about? Wait, I’m sorry, like I–

BOBBY:  You’re gonna see what it’s about in just a moment.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  It’s Phil Mushnik.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  What do you think it’s about?

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  In sustaining the counterproductive presence of Gary Sanchez.

ALEX:  Yes! Yes!

BOBBY:  They finally traded them away and Phil had to send them off the right way.

ALEX:  Right. He was like I gotta turn out all the, all the takes I can.

BOBBY:  And paying him more for his presence. It certainly seems the Yankees were the last to know that he was more doorstop than backstop. He was MLB’s highest salaried, listless retriever of past balls.

ALEX:  And has the thesaurus.com just open at all time as he’s writing this.

BOBBY:  Now he’s, now he’s sharing a message from his reader, reader Joe Nugent. Quote, “Poor Sonny Gray traded to the Twins the same day they get Sanchez to catch them again. That Sanchez conspicuously resisted all attempts, including private tutoring to become even a minimally efficient catcher who ran the bases with even a minimal degree of enthusiasm and situational awareness. And batted with the goal to hit the ball rather than strikeout. Only seem to escape Aaron Boone, Brian Cashman and YES’ broadcasting teams, drive by shoot effort, YES Network. Please don’t disrespect my friend Ryan Ruocco but such as life in the big city. And now we move on to the part where he talks about the Crosstown Dominican player Robinson Canó. Robinson Canó is back to play somewhat for the Mets after his second PED suspension. As a Yankee, it was clear that Canó was a minimalist, that the fundamental winning baseball act of running to first was beneath him.

ALEX:  This is Robinson Canó, right? We’re talking about that universally beloved Yankee who is one of their greatest players ever, especially if he spends his whole career there.

BOBBY:  Yep.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  That same Robinson Canó. As an aging M-who isn’t? M-met, his disinclination to reach first base in even a moderately quick fashion was excused explained and rationalized by the pandering as a veteran quote, “Trying to save his legs.” Saving them for what? He’s a professional ballplayer.

ALEX:  He has not been on the Yankees for years.

BOBBY:  I know. Anytime you have a long history of columns that you can just reprint and change the team name.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Instead of actually doing your job, you just have to do it. Anytime you can get from–

ALEX:  Joseph Stalin to Robinson Canó in like four paragraphs?

BOBBY:  It’s actually kind of [6:04]

ALEX:  Kind of is. I, is is there more to this article? I’m like, I’m still kind of missing the thesis here, right? Like I’ve, there was something about trench coats up top. And, and then there was casual racism in the middle.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like what are we, what are we building towards, you know?

BOBBY:  It’s, it’s just taking back to–

ALEX:  The casual racism freshman English class days.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Like thesis statement. Topic sentence, topic sentence, topic sentence [6:36]–

ALEX:  Right. Exactly.The classic like five paragraph.

BOBBY:  Yeah, the, the casual racism is a feature, not a book.

ALEX:  Right. Yes.

BOBBY:  It’s like the whole thing.

ALEX:  Really.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm. Uhm, so here’s where we get back to the thesis of the whole article and the headline.

ALEX:  Okay, I’m I’m waiting for this.

BOBBY:  We- you’ll recall the headline was New York teams make effort to find players who make no effort.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  So the whole article is a list of all of the players that Phil Mushnik thinks are lazy, who have played for New York teams. He then goes on to talk about Le’Veon Bell.

ALEX:  Hmm.

BOBBY:  He talks about Ben Simmons who won’t play, who’s day to day with a back injury.

ALEX:  Good.

BOBBY:  Though, that’s the whole column. Shall I, shall I treat you to the kicker?

ALEX:  Please. I, you know, I’m kind of torn on this, because on the one hand, it was a really inspiring lead. Like I, I actually thought there was going to be like, this is clearly a guy who is at the peak of his craft. And it just kind of feels like he maybe mailed it in a little bit. Like, I know that most of his articles are just like, pick up a player, pick a non-white player on a New York sports team. And spend 500 words, critiquing them with convoluted metaphors.

BOBBY:  Right!

ALEX:  But I don’t know, I feel like he set things up so nicely up top. And, and then just kind of lost.

BOBBY:  Yes, he he goes out of his way to talk about Carmelo Anthony, who hasn’t been on the Knicks for like 8 years. He talks about Evan Engram, who was the first-round pick by the Giants and just recently signed with Jacksonville. And here’s the kicker, Alex, but the folks who run teams in Florida can’t be expected to be sharper than those who run teams in New York City. Besides, let some other town be the last to know. Because Evan Engram signed with the Jacksonville Jaguars.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Needed a trench coat? Out!

ALEX:  Wow! Mic drop.

BOBBY:  Uhm, I just thought you might appreciate that.

ALEX:  I didn’t know that I needed that–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –in my life.

BOBBY:  You had a rough night last night. And now this is bringing you back to life.

ALEX:  I was at a a a bar that was doing some karaoke. And while, yes, I could have gotten up there and and sing a Taylor Swift song or–

BOBBY:  Yeah, you got up there and sang “hope ur ok” by Olivia Rodriguez.

ALEX:  Right. Exactly.

BOBBY:  That’s the one from that album that you love the most.

ALEX:  Uh-huh. Yeah. I really should have gotten up there with this and done kind of like a, like slam poetry.

BOBBY:  Yeah. The modern beatniks, [9:12].

ALEX:  Right. Joseph Stalin, man.

BOBBY:  We should work Joseph Stalin references into more podcasts.

ALEX:  It would not actually be that hard for us to do.

BOBBY:  I don’t even think it would be that far off topic.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Let’s work on that. Uhm, we got a ton of news this past week. We got some big and positive news in Minor League Baseball, which we’re going to talk about. And then we’re going to finish the podcast by doing a bunch of mailbag questions. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[9:46]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Okay, Baseball is back, the hot stove is hot again, Alex. A bunch of signings in this past week. Obviously people don’t come to Tipping Pitches to hear about Transaction Analysis.

ALEX:  Which is why we’re gonna spend 20 minutes on it?

BOBBY:  No, I don’t think that we need to do Transaction Analysis but I did kind of want to ask you what it felt like to see the free agent carousel again. We got some really big names changing teams.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Trevor story is now a Red Sox for six years. $140 million. Carlos Correa is a member of the Minnesota Twins. Big market, big bad Minnesota Twins that the Yankees can’t possibly outspend and attract Carlos Correa away from. 3 years $105 million with an opt out after each year. So obviously a high average annual value there but think of much shorter contract? And a lot of people were expecting Carlos Correa to sign, given that, you know, most 27-year old middle infield superstars tend to opt for the long contract like Francisco Lindor. Freddie Freeman will be wearing Dodger blue for 6 years $162 million. super weird. That’s like a real MLB: The Show vibe when you’re like five years into a franchise motor “Road to the Show.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And all of a sudden, like franchise icons are playing for other teams and you’re just like, sure that would never happen in real life. Well, it happened. And speaking of franchise icons playing for other teams, flip flop of that is Kenley Jansen is now on the Atlanta Braves for 1 year $16 million. There was obviously a bunch of other stuff, the Matt Olson  extension. The groundbreaking, Hansel Robles back to the Red Sox move that really puts them as World Series favorites in my mind. Nick Castellanos to the Phillies for 5 years 100 million. Kyle Schwarber to the Phillies, they just don’t think that they have to make any outs in the outfield there, but that’s okay.

ALEX:  Right. That’s what the universal DH is for.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you just get to put as many fielders out [11:54]. Universal, the Phillies are the universal DH and they were like we get to have 98 spots?

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Sweet. As all of this news was breaking, were you like, oh, yeah, Baseball is back, baby. Were you, were you eating it up? Because I’ll say for myself, I found it kind of disorienting. I think I need like a couple of weeks and the regular season to start before I really start to conceive of any of these teams as real collects. You know, collections of players ever again.

ALEX:  Yeah, I’m still not, not in a place where I’m thinking about the idea of of baseball teams.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Playing baseball, like Sonny gray being on the Minnesota Twins.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I’m like, I guess. I mean, that’s groundbreaking analysis here, you know. It’s actually Kenley Jansen to the Braves is like the weird one for me. Freddie Freeman on the Dodgers, I I totally see. I mean, it’s weird. But I get it because it’s the, it’s the Dodgers, right? I mean, you–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –would never think. Trea Turner on the Dodgers. But I feel like Kenley is such a beloved hometown player, and has obviously dealt with both on and off field struggles, health issues, etc. I don’t know, I feel like you never really think about those types of players who maybe not like franchise players, but–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –the ones you can kind of, kind of count on.

BOBBY:  Especially closers too, because they, they have like such a similar rhythm to every game, they’re always coming in. I think of Kenley like the excitement that it brought to the Dodgers crowd when they would play his intro music, which “California Love” by Tupac. And–

ALEX:  Right. What is it gonna be now?

BOBBY:  I don’t know. I, I wonder if he would just keep the same song.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Like after you’ve been closing games for so long to switch that up, seems like a too big of a risk.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  But you’re right, nothing can com- nothing can prepare you for the thought of seeing a player who you otherwise love putting on an Atlanta Braves jersey. Although I guess you had to prepare yourself for that last week when they traded Matt Olson into the Braves.

ALEX:  And Matt Champman to the Blue Jays and Chris Bassitt to the Mets.

BOBBY:  Well, you’re used to seeing incredible third baseman get traded to the Blue Jays. Not the first time that that happens.

ALEX:  Tough scene. Mookie Betts, Trea Turner, Freddie Freeman. I know I’m just reading the Dodgers lineup now but–

BOBBY:  Should we just ke- why stop there? Max Muncy.

ALEX:  Justin Turner, Will Smith.

BOBBY:  Like it’s unbelievable.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  They are, unbelievable.

ALEX:  I feel like this is, this is real throwback vibes. You know, like first few episodes of this podcast vibes. Were just kind of like, man, crazy how many baseball players there are. And how many of them are really good at what they do?

BOBBY:  Yeah, yeah. Let’s spin it forward to a more modern version of Tipping Pitches and talk about the A’s and the Reds completely tanking for unknown reasons?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Although we kind of know the reasons. The second, the CBA was inked. The second, the lockout was lifted. The first thing that the Reds and the Oakland Athletics, thought to do was like, thanks for sticking with us, fans. Thanks for getting excited about the lockout ending and the season coming back, 162 games. Now we’re going to trade every player. So it looks like those anti-tanking measures from the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Ho- how are they, how are they doing? How are they holding up so far? 12 days into the CBA.

ALEX:  Right, we knew this was coming. Or at least I knew it was coming on behalf of the A’s. I think maybe the Reds are the one that was a little more surprising. Any less so given what we know about Bob, I seriously, we have mentioned the name Bob Castellini on this podcast so many times.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I, I genuinely did not think about him.

BOBBY:  I feel like we need intro music for him.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like at this point we’ve talked about him so many times that–

ALEX:  Right. My God!

BOBBY:  –someone that Bob’s [16:18] someone needs to read, it’s like a little jingle talking, talking about his wholesale produce.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Get some carrot mentions and maybe some brussels sprouts. You know, maybe Romaine?

ALEX:  We love this bit.

BOBBY:  It’s such a good bit.

ALEX:  I will say–

BOBBY:  What is the bit by the way? There’s no joke in there, really. The bit is just talking about how he sells fruits and vegetables.

ALEX:  Right. Like a, like a genuinely kind of generic business? I think maybe our, it’s our disbelief that you can–

BOBBY:  [16:48]

ALEX:  –get, get so wealthy–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –from that. But I guess, stranger things have happened.

BOBBY:  That’s just supply chain economics right there.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Supermarket needs carrots, someone’s got to get them carrots, you know?

ALEX:  I hope the listeners enjoy this content.

BOBBY:  If somebody writes us a jingle, I can’t think of a good way to pay them back. But you know, the future Patreon, which we will someday launch at some–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –point for some amount of money to provide some level of content that is more than just this free podcast. That person will have a free access pass to the Patreon for life.

ALEX:  That’s right.

BOBBY:  Okay, back to Bob Castellini. My God! Someone honked outside, it’s like they heard us. Let’s go!

ALEX:  I actually, I can’t speak too much to to Bob and his current financial situation. I will say I was on John Fisher’s Forbes page.

BOBBY:  Oooh. Real time–

ALEX:  And–

BOBBY:  –what’s the real time looking like?

ALEX:  Well, the real time is is 2.5 billion. I I will say it looks like he from from April of last year to October of last year. He went from 3.1 to 2.9.

BOBBY:  Ouch.

ALEX:  Which I think probably explains the the slashing and burning–

BOBBY:  Of the A’s.

ALEX:  –of the A’s, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  That’s why they’re gonna run out a $30 million payroll this year.

BOBBY:  Just the Forbes know about the ROI yet? Like have they, have they updated that based on the extension that they don’t have to sign Matt Chapman and Matt Olson.

ALEX:  That’s true. Yeah!

BOBBY:  Like that could be, you look tomorrow?

ALEX:  Well–

BOBBY:  Once the ink is dry on those deals.

ALEX:  They raised season ticket prices. One of our listeners Mike DMed me to point out they also raised the price of hats.

BOBBY:  Ooh.

ALEX:  I don’t know, it feels like they’re, they’re almost running out of ways to alienate their fans. They’re like, what else can we, can we do? Disassembled hot dogs? You know, like–

BOBBY:  Yeah, I feel like hats are a pretty standard price.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You know, anytime you you can raise prices while trading all of your best players. You just kind of have to do it, feels like it’s capitalism having a moment again, like is it bouncing back? And all of this pro union sentiment, all of these, the young leftist wave. the A’s are just like, Nah! You guys are still gonna come to the games, right? Like you–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You’re still gonna [19:05] new stadium.

ALEX:  [19:05] give us that money.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you’re gonna, you’re gonna come on down to Howard Terminal huh?

ALEX:  Here’s the thing and I have never understood this. But I really don’t understand the the business case for this.

BOBBY:  For raising prices?

ALEX:  For raising prices for, I mean for trading players again, not to just be like, why- why not just spend the money to keep them? But–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –for all the whining about gate receipts, and fan attendance, and how important that is to owners bottom line? This feels like that flies directly in the face of that, right? The fact that the Oakland A’s are still able to maintain themselves as a profitable franchise, while routinely drawing 10,000 fans?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  7,000 fans, and and doing the very things that you think would alienate them. The fact that they still are in existence feels like that is disproving the very theory that you need the fans to be able to make money off the sport.

BOBBY:  Yeah, to the extent that we actually believe that there is a floor at which you, you start becoming unprofitable. If you don’t, you know, attract some fans to the ballpark for the actual in person games. If that even is true, the A’s are challenging that floor. But we kind of thought, oh, they might be at it, you know. They sell 5,000 tickets per game. on weeknights. There was a, there was a lot of discussion about a stadium turnout last season.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  To which you said, What the hell guys? Like why would people turn out–

ALEX:  These.

BOBBY:  –they’re like, in a nosedive. And most of these guys are not going to be on the team next year. And they’re also trying to flirt with Las Vegas in front of everybody’s very eyes. But yeah, I think that the economic reality of baseball right now, is that if that floor even exists, I don’t know that any team has hit it. And that’s pretty bleak to think about. Because when you consider the fact that the A’s are pulling in just a few 1,000 10,000 On weekends, you consider the fact that the Marlins don’t even open half their stadium seating.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You consider the fact that the Rays never sell out or whatever. But they still have a great local cable deal. And they’re still a good team, and they still won’t find ways to sell fans and get people in the stadium. I don’t know how you look at that and think anything other than owners are just going to keep trying to see how far they can dig that–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –that grave.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Dig that floor. [21:43]–

ALEX:  They’re very clearly saying how far can we go?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I mean, we’ve seen that in every other aspect of the sport.

BOBBY:  Oh, I thought you were just gonna say life. But I’m–

ALEX:  That too, just–

BOBBY:  –how far can we go? How much will people take?

ALEX:  Yep. I mean, I guess this is the logical conclusion.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  [22:02] for.

BOBBY:  As we sit here, as we sit here, and like a 9 by 12 room that I paid 1000s of dollars a month for, recording this podcast, for free.

ALEX:  Yeah. What are you going to do? Where else you’re gonna go?

BOBBY:  Exactly. But so so here’s where I bring the nuance into the conversation, though, when it comes to the A’s. Because though this has been happening your whole life. And it’s equally as gut wrenching every time when you, when your favorite players get traded. And obviously, if people listen to this podcast, they know, I think that teams should make so much more of a good faith effort to try to keep players around and build around franchise cornerstones. Because I think that that creates the longest lasting relationships for fans, and it creates the most loyal fans, at least with the A’s. This is like kind of what, this is not what the fans signed up for, but it’s what they know.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I think that there is a more recent trend in Baseball, probably inspired by the A’s. And inspired by Moneyball, where all of these other teams try to do what the A’s do. It’s like, oh, we we push, we kind of push in a little bit of a window. And then we like, sell the team for parts, and we wait till we strike it rich with a prospect. Or strike it rich in the draft a couple years consecutively. But I think that is a total myth. Like I, for what the Reds are doing. I think that that is much more aggressively anti fan than even what the A’s are doing.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Because the A’s are like, this is the deal. You know what’s coming. And we’re gonna get a bunch of really good prospects back. Because we know exactly when to train our guys, because we’ve been doing this for two decades.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Like Olson and Chapman still both had two years of Team control.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And so they got massive returns for both of those guys, much better than the Reds really got for any of their players that they traded.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Those were all just salary dumps, but to what end? You know what I mean? Like, I understand the A’s end, I don’t understand teams like the Reds. Because they made like a halfway push for like, a year and a half.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like, why even do that at all? Why not just be the Pirates? Why not just tank all the time then? I don’t even understand why you would even lie and try to set, do you think that you created lifelong fans and that 18-month period. Where you made the pa- the pandemic playoffs and nothing else.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And lost in the first-round.

ALEX:  Right. You had- you actually had a year and a half of sheer excitement, not just from Reds fans, but I feel like around the sport like I was getting excited about the Reds. I think you were getting it, you, you bought me a Cincinnati Reds hat.

BOBBY:  I sure did.

ALEX:  I I still wear that from time to time.

BOBBY:  Wow. So embarrassing now.

ALEX:  Right?

BOBBY:  I think it’s something to keep track of too, especially now in this new CBA. And we’ve already seen teams kind of flout the new anti-tanking measures so to speak. But we’ve yet to see if there’s going to be any kind of blowback, or any kind of gradual realization that it’s doesn’t pay off quite as much as he used to. Unfortunately, I don’t think that that’s going to happen. And that’s what we said, the night that we sat down to record, the CBA reaction podcast. Like these, this anti-tanking stuff is kind of eyewash. As we say–

ALEX:  There is no [25:26]–

BOBBY:  –in the Baseball world.

ALEX:  –there was no real anti-tanking measures, because there’s still no incentive to spend money.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I feel bad. I mean, I feel bad for you. And I feel bad for Reds fans and I, there are a whole host of teams that are kind of like, spinning in place. Which is almost like as a fan. At least you can write that off to be like, it’s hard to compete, it’s hard to put together a good baseball team. But then the team’s actually actively throwing it in reverse. The second that they get the their their first chance to just dumping all of the fans like renewed hope now that Baseball is back, like that, that really hurts. And I think that that for all of the like fear mongering that we saw from the both sides media, in the lockout, and collective bargaining coverage about how fans we’re not going to come back if we lost games. And fans weren’t going to care, because it was millionaires versus billionaires. Like where are all of those people now? Where are all of those people getting furious at the Reds? And the A’s? Where’s the column that says Moneyball is worse for fan engagement than a lockout? I’m wait- I’m still waiting for that one. From all the people who were like if we miss one single game, I will tie myself to the, I will tie myself to second base at Yankee Stadium and protest. It’s just funny how we just lose that energy or like we lose the the desire to make that kind of like high minded think-piecy argument throughout the rest of the Baseball calendar.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, we yeah, we had we just had months of nonstop discussions about the business of Baseball, and everyone had an opinion on it.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Now we’re back to business, as usual, right?

BOBBY:  Well, the one thing that we haven’t lost from the last few months is people sharing conspiracy theories about Scott Boras.

ALEX:  It’s very true.

BOBBY:  But I don’t even really want to, I don’t think I understand the conspiracy theories as it relates to Carlos Correa’s contract well enough to really dispel them on the podcast, you know. And I don’t think I want to, I don’t think listeners really want me to.

ALEX:  No, Scott Boras’ conspiracy theories, I don’t know. Is there an appetite for them? I, maybe?

BOBBY:  Listeners will just have to call in and let us know.

ALEX:  Yeah. I just feel like you can probably come up with more creative ones, than Scott Boras is what manipulating the market. Like–

BOBBY:  Scott Boras is only out to help himself.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Once again, he’s an agent.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like what–

ALEX:  Like, yeah.

BOBBY:  Yes. He wants to help him sell–

ALEX:  But you–

BOBBY:  –but also has to help his clients to do that. Otherwise, they won’t hire him.

ALEX:  What did you think the setup was here?

BOBBY:  Did you think he was like a public servant?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He’s Scott Boras, like where have you been for the last two decades? Okay, we are going to answer some of those listener questions. Unfortunately, none of them are about Scott Boras or conspiracy theories. Before we do answer listener questions, we got some news about the minor leagues, some positive news. In that a judge in California awarded preliminary damages before this case even goes to trial about illegal wage practices for minor league teams in California. They determined that minor leaguers are year-round employees who need to be compensated a year-round. And also need to be compensated for things like travel time. The time that it takes to get to places like Arizona and Florida for Spring training, to get to games, that sort of thing. So do you have those details on what the actual damages were rewarded for? And you know, what, what what we can expect as this case progresses.

ALEX:  This is [29:10] versus the Kansas City Royals that has grown to now include effectively 1000s of of minor leaguers, and it is really kind of bounced around all over the place. It’s been bounced up to the Supreme Court and back down. It has flirted with class action status. And as you mentioned, this is it hasn’t gone to trial yet. But there were some some dueling claims, basically where Major League Baseball tried to argue, as we have seen them do before. That minor league players are seasonal employees.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Akin to–

BOBBY:  Amusement park worker.

ALEX:  Right, interns. And the judge, and the judge disagreed with that. He said that minor leaguers should be paid for travel time to road games in the California League. And to practice in Arizona and Florida. Now, this ruling is somewhat limited in scope, right? It doesn’t dismantle the notion that minor leaguers are seasonal employees exactly. It is not going to overhaul the payment system. It’s limited to California, Arizona, and and Florida. The the damages that players will be awarded for playing in Arizona and Florida are still pending the stuff to be sorted out. But the judge ruled that MLB was not following California’s wage statement requirements and ordered close to $2 million in penalties as a result. Which is like huge, it’s a it’s a huge win for this movement, even though we know that it’s long overdue.

BOBBY:  I thought one of the more interesting parts was that the judge also found that MLB is a joint employer. Which means that along with the fact that individual clubs who F minor league teams in California are exposed in this lawsuit that that means that the MLB central office itself is exposed too. So they could be found guilty, I guess, for violating California Wage Law. Because they are considered a joint employer who has jurisdiction over all 30 teams basically, about setting policy for the 30 teams. And if one of those 30 teams is violating California Wage Law, then MLB will be found guilty as well. Now, I’m not sure what that would mean for where the funds come from to pay these minor leaguers back for the wages that they’re owed. But I think this is another thing you know, like we get asked a lot does X open the door to unionizing the minors?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Does this class action lawsuit mean that it’s easier to unionize the minors? Or does the challenge to the antitrust exemption mean that forming a union is easier? And I think the short answer to that question is no, not really. But the slightly more nuan- nuanced answer to that question is that it sets a tone for what you would eventually talk about when you’re talking–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –about unionizing the minor leagues. You can point to your, someone who is on board, a minor leaguer, who was on board with the union can talk to his teammate about why he feels this way. And then he can point back to the fact that major league teams are violating California Wage Law in how they’re paying us. And the court system, the federal judges, the public, they’re all on our side. So why not unionize? Why not go the extra step and do it? And so all of this stuff is greatly overdue. But it is also the kind of thing that I don’t want to say greases the skids for a minor league union. But at least eliminates some speed bumps towards something like that, in terms of how you talk about it with other people, and how the tone of the labor conditions for these players is conceived of.

ALEX:  Yeah, I’m obviously no law professional lawyers [33:38]–

BOBBY:  That’s what law- lawyers call themselves. Hey, nice to meet you, I’m Alex Bazeley, law professional.

ALEX:  I think this precedent is is important as you’re saying. It, it helps shape the dialogue. And it feels like one piece of the puzzle that will be important for for lawyers to point back to when making this broader case. As you mentioned, it’s it’s going to trial in June given the way that this is headed. I, I think it seems unlikely that it gets that far.

BOBBY:  Oh, you’re you’re you’re going big settlement guy.

ALEX:  Well, I mean, do you think that MLB, especially if it sees the writing on the wall with this

BOBBY:  Yeah, they don’t want to go to discovery.

ALEX:  I don’t know that they really do. [34:32]

BOBBY:  Yeah, but at post parties have to agree to a settlement, you know.

ALEX:  Well, yes. Yeah.

BOBBY:  If the, if the Senside Seney, Senside, I don’t know, I really apologize for not knowing how to say his name. If the side of the minor leaguers does not want to agree to the settlement and wants to, wants this to play out and fold that’s their legal right.

ALEX:  Oh, absolutely.

BOBBY:  It should be say.

ALEX:  That, I’m I’m all for that.

BOBBY:  But also I understand if you don’t want to wait another 8 years.

ALEX:  Right. This feels like a similar dynamic to actually what we saw play out with In the CBA, right? Where you’re kind of balancing, do I want to be a part of this project that dismantles the the baseball’s financial structure? Weighing that against, do I just kind of want to get out? You know, like this is dragged on for–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –a while. Do I just want to get paid and what I deserve?

BOBBY:  The other thing that I’ll say with regards to how this affects minor league unionization, is that, what you said like legal precedent does matter when it comes to bargaining. So it might not actually help them form the union, which is the hardest tasks to accomplish. But if it could help them, when they’re putting proposals back and forth, and MLB is saying, No, we don’t want to give you X. No, we can’t afford to give you X, etc, etc. It gives them a legal case to point back to and say, actually, your prior business practices were illegal. And so you can’t hold firm to this clause where you’re trying to enshrine your prior business practices. Because in California, where a large chunk of minor leaguers play, that actually was illegal and you had to pay damages.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Creative professionals, that’s what, that’s how MLB would like to describe minor leaguers, they’re creative professionals, like artists.

BOBBY:  Do you consider yourself a creative professional?

ALEX:  In that I spend a lot of time doing something that I get paid nothing for?

BOBBY:  Yeah. The way that you play Grand Theft Auto is creatively professional.

ALEX:  Not as much as I am a a law professional.

BOBBY:  Right. Yeah.

ALEX:  But the creative side bleeds out everyone’s problem.

BOBBY:  Okay, let’s take a quick break and when we come back, listeners questions.

[36:46]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, we have a ton of good questions. And I apologize to all the people who asked lockout questions that we tried to get to but just ran out of time. We asked people to submit questions that are kind of like baseball is back. What do we want to think about? So we’re gonna start with a couple of the submissions from Twitter, and then we’ll do a couple voicemails to and then we’ll get out here. This first question comes from Mike Schubert. And we’re getting to Mike’s question first, former guest of the podcast, Mike Schubert, hosts a million great podcasts about many different things. Mike gets to ask the first question because he bought us pizza this past week. If you buy us pizza, you get to ask the first question. That’s a new policy. I’m always saying this. Schubes wants to know what team is going to have the worst jersey patch? And will owners use their other companies to buy jersey patches on their baseball teams?

ALEX:  Yeah, we haven’t really talked about this, have we?

BOBBY:  No. I mean, I’m sure people know by now that part of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement is that teams can sell sponsorships on jerseys. They’ll be a, I believe they’ll be on hats, batting helmets, and the jersey itself. So advertising stretches just a little further in the game of baseball.

ALEX:  I actually weirdly don’t have a strong opinion about this.

BOBBY:  I don’t either.

ALEX:  Like I, we’ve been seeing this phased into various sports for years now. I mean, this has existed in soccer, for example, for eternity.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I know it, it just res–

BOBBY:  So many Etihad jerseys out there in the world. I mean, it is like Rocket 10.

ALEX:  Right. It does feel like like Little League a little bit, you know. Where you–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –have like the local auto shop on the front of your–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –jersey.

BOBBY:  De Lorenzo’s Pizza was mine.

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  Only one of the years. I mean, I I think that there was probably like 15 of them in my time. But De Lorenzo’s Pizza was the one that I remember the most. Just free ad space right now for De Lorenzo’s Pizza, Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania.

ALEX:  Was it worth it? Did you ever have it?

BOBBY:  I think we got like a pizza party from them at the end of the year. But–

ALEX:  Clearly not memorable enough.

BOBBY:  It was good. It was more of a V&S Pizzeria guy myself. There’s one person–

ALEX:  [39:13] nothing to me or most of our listeners–

BOBBY:  There’s one person listening right now from Bucks County, Pennsylvania who’s going hard right now. Like yes, V&S Pizzeria. I know that person’s out there.

ALEX:  All that to say I just know we are going to get the the randomest companies buying up patches, right, you know? We’ve seen this happen before where I learned about the existence of companies through the fact that they are like sponsoring spring training–

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  –you know,

BOBBY:  I know. Dusan.

ALEX:  Right, Dusan.

BOBBY:  Baked Dusan push a couple years–

ALEX:  There you go, Dusan push Camping World.

BOBBY:  Yeah, Camping World, although I feel like Camping World was out there. Yeah. And we were just not the target demo, right? Like I don’t feel like they really jumped onto the scene. I think camping worlds probably been around for a bit. I mean, do Sun probably as well. Yeah, true, but I think they probably made their push in the United States a few years back and baseball was one of the things could be totally wrong. Now we’re talking about international commerce.

ALEX:  No free ads, and unless we have to talk about it.

BOBBY:  So what’s the answer, then? What’s the worst company that’s gonna buy a jersey patch? And we’ll, I don’t think that owners can sell the jersey patch to another company that they own that feels like straight up money laundering, right like that, that that is money laundering. That’s what money laundering is, right? I’ve watched enough TV shows, to know that that’s money.

ALEX:  Well, also just that, would that be profitable? To buy?

BOBBY:  But money laundering doesn’t have to be profitable, Alex just has to hide some of the income. That’s the whole point of money laundering.

ALEX:  Jesus Christ. I don’t know what the worst company is going to be.

BOBBY:  Haven’t you ever watched Breaking Bad? They buy the carwash that launder all of the drug money through it? 

ALEX:  Yeah, there is an owner who watched that show and was like, Oh, I didn’t think about that. Jersey patch. Idea. So I was Mike’s question, what’s gonna be the worst company or what is going to look the worst? Because I do think there are jerseys on which it may seem more out of place. Like on on on white jerseys, for example. I don’t think depending on the color scheme of the logo, I’m not sure it’s gonna make that much of a difference. But I think of some of the more colorful jerseys we have in the league, like, like the Rockies, purple jerseys, or the as kelly green jerseys. Where if you just have like a big blue logo, yes, smack dab on the you know, the the shoulder. Yeah, it’s gonna look weird.

BOBBY:  I don’t know that I can really predict who’s going to be the worst, but I can I can name a couple companies that are definitely going to buy one. Mm hmm. Roman. Yeah. course. Course. Yeah. Feels like corps just has to buy the Rockies one that you think they have like an obligation? They get a deal do that? I do think that probably rocket 10 will buy one. Squarespace. They sponsored the next su Okay. Those will be my predictions. Disney sponsors the Orlando Magic, which I think is cool in the NBA cuz it actually makes sense. Yeah, cuz Disney owns everything in Orlando, right. But other than that, I don’t really know probably like WB Mason, because they’re like a huge baseball sponsor. But you see WB Mason, you like WB Mason for sure. What do they do, Alex? What does WB Mason do? Are they like shipping? Yes. Shipping logistics?

ALEX:  What does that mean? How is that getting from point A to point B? Like is don’t you just plug it into Google Maps? Yeah.

BOBBY:  Mm hmm. Those are little logistics. We saw how important shipping logistics have been in the last two years with the pandemic.

ALEX:  Bill, this is a real big part for us just talking about industries of which we have little to no knowledge.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. That’s how we got good at talking about the baseball industry, which we came in with little to no knowledge. And now we see people seem to think that we have a lot of knowledge now.

ALEX:  I mean, we’re gonna get a crypto sponsorship. Oh, yeah. A crypto or betting one? FTX? Probably.

BOBBY:  Yeah, Jesus. So a betting? I have a question about a betting one. Okay. Can they do that? That feels that feels too far.

ALEX:  I don’t know. Can they not?

BOBBY:  So like, should they do that? Obviously, no. But well, they as in the league? Yeah. Should the teams be allowed? Should they? Should they allow a betting company to literally put something on the literal players who are playing the games? I think no, that seems like a recipe for disaster. But then I would have to imagine they have some kind of policy about which companies teams are allowed to sell these sponsorships to. And you might think that there would be at least enough separation of church and state still to say, let’s at least allow the the casinos to stay in the outfield. When you walk in, not on the literal field, for as much as they’ve done with the broadcast. They’ve, they’ve done a lot less on the field with the players themselves. And I know that the most recent CBA expanded what players are allowed to do in terms of accepting money to sponsor you know, sports betting companies and whatnot. But still, I would think that the jersey patch itself is at the very least distasteful, and at most, like potentially corrupt.

ALEX:  I mean, yeah, that’s, that’s why it’ll it’ll happen. Right?

BOBBY:  Okay. All right. I think that crypto is the worst one. Shoot, it’s yeah, that’s my answer.

ALEX:  Yes, I agree.

BOBBY:  Very important. Next question. Probably the most important question we have today comes from Nico, who is better at baseball, Alex or Bobby?

ALEX:  Was that is that President surpassed NS like who is better right now

BOBBY:  the question says who is better at baseball, okay. We can do both. Who was better who is Better now. Tough question. How do you compare across positions? You know, right?

ALEX:  Well also, neither of us have ever seen the other play baseball.

BOBBY:  Well, we saw each other play softball. It’s the closest thing that we can get to that. We’ve also played catch. Not a great showing for either of us in a limited time playing catch.

ALEX:  Right. We both have arm injuries. Yeah, week afterwards.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you know, it hurts throwing a baseball. I get it taken off the ground. Please don’t be in as much pain this year throwing a baseball. Um, I think you’re probably a better hitter than me. And I’m probably a better pitcher than you. Yeah, that would be my assessment. Yeah. But by the time I was like, 12, now probably like 13 or 14. I was like a PA pitcher. Oh, yeah, basically, there you go. I played first base every once in a while. Like I would come out of the game and go to first if we were winning by a lot. But I also didn’t wear glasses full time until college. But I definitely needed to wear glasses full time. So I had a really hard time hitting, because I couldn’t really see the Yeah, yeah, I remember my coach in middle school was like, so you wear glasses in class? And I’m like, Yeah. And he’s like, that doesn’t seem weird to you that you don’t need to wear glasses on the field. And I was like, No, I could see it. Right. But my other sport was basketball. So big orange ball. Not that hard to see. So I just never went in on like the sports goggles or contacts, which would have been easier.

ALEX:  I think I was I was pretty good in Little League.

BOBBY:  On it way back now. Two guys talking about their little league highlights.

ALEX:  Right. Relive in the glory days. High school was a little more hit or miss. I, right, raked freshman year.

BOBBY:  Wow! Raked.

ALEX:  Dude, I hit like 350.

BOBBY:  Wow! What’s the OBP though?

ALEX:  Probably like 350.

BOBBY:  Yeah, dude.

ALEX:  Abysmal sophomore in junior years.

BOBBY:  What happened? 

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  Talk me about it.

ALEX:  –I, the the sample size became bigger.

BOBBY:  Oh. Whoa, second base, right?

ALEX:  Second base, yeah.

BOBBY:  So you probably–

ALEX:  I think, I think, I was, I was a pretty good defender, actually.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you’re probably better with the glove than me. I was never much of an infield defender.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Never much of an outfield defender either. That’s why I got moved to the mount. I could feel the position at pitcher.

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  You know what I liked? Catching. I thought that that was fun. In a kind of, like weirdly masochistic way.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You know, like, I’m definitely doing the most work out here. I’m in the most pain. I’m getting the most bruises out of this deal. Like it was kind of fun.

ALEX:  I mean, you are at the literal center of the action, right. You are involved in effectively every single play.

BOBBY:  Yeah. So what you’re saying is that you’re doing an entirely different job than the rest of the players? That’s the argument you’re making? So what you’re saying is that you think that there should be a second DH for the catcher position? Just like I’ve been saying, that’s the argument that you’ve been making for years.

ALEX:  I don’t, I don’t think, I don’t know that that’s the argument I’m making.

BOBBY:  You’re saying, your argument for having a pitcher, a DH for the pitcher is that the pitcher does a different job, than everybody else.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  A harder job, which is the same thing you’re saying about catcher right now?

ALEX:  Well, I mean, my my k- I can’t believe we’re doing this. The cases that pitchers dedicate so much time to their craft that is completely different from everything else on the field. That they physically are not able to dedicate time to being a good hitter. Otherwise, they would have to sacrifice some of their- like catchers are bad hitters, and still hit like 100 points better than pitchers.

BOBBY:  We’ll see how long that lasts. Okay, so Nikko not really a great answer for your question. Depends on what your team needs, I guess. Let’s do a voicemail now.

ALEX:  Okay.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hey, Alex and Bobby, my name is Nick. And I’ve been a regular listener of the pod for just over a year now. Free agency has been really heating up post lockout. I’m really excited for that. And one thing that I’ve actually noticed in the past year, for me personally is a change for the better in my, my baseball fandom, more specifically, kind of how to separate the players on field value with their salary or the contract that they signed and being able to treat those things separately. As a bit of background, I’m a Brewers fan. So any mention of Jason Heyward’s time with the Cubs used to be a prime invitation for my friends to label him as overrated. Because he was making a lot of money and not really playing well. And in hindsight, that’s obviously really stupid. Fans clearly don’t have a serious financial stake in play or payroll. So Heyward catching all that flack just because the rig is decided to give him Scrooge McDuck money demonstrates really a lack of understanding of how franchises the run. And obviously just a really weird way to be a fan. So my question for you is this, can you remember something about your early fandom, either baseball or otherwise, that changed once you started doing the podcast? Love the show, keep up the great work and look forward to hearing your thoughts.

BOBBY:  This is a tough question. I mean, there definitely are things that that we’ve changed our, or or I guess more so like refined our opinions on.

ALEX:  Right. Like there’s some really easy answers here just about how we like, consume the business of baseball and think about it and talk about it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, like I’ll say, for myself, I barely ever paid attention to things like arbitration.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Honestly, I didn’t really pay attention to payroll, all that much like league wide payroll. I would obviously pay attention as it affected the New York Mets. And I knew that the Yankees route spending most everybody in the Dodgers route spending mostly everybody. And I knew that the Rays were spending no money. And that was kind of like the extent to which I cared about this. I never really cared about League wide trends in that respect. So I guess that would probably be my answer is caring about the like, health economically of the sport. Uhm, but similar to what Nick is describing. I was like, Jason Bay is a waste of money.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Bobby Bania de like, got my jokes off too.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And and now I’m like, that was a waste of time and effort and not funny at all. Remember being like good thing, we’re paying Óliver Pérez all that money to suck? Just excavating all of my worst player salary takes, live on the podcast. You never had to worry about that. Because the A’s never actually paid anything.

ALEX:  Right, right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Don’t–

ALEX:  It never crossed my mind.

BOBBY:  –have any skills in New York closet.

ALEX:  I definitely think I changed the way I watched players and team or like, enjoyed other players in teams, especially when I was younger. It was very much like I’m an A’s fan, so I know all the A’s players. And I see the teams that come to town. I mean, this is what we’re talking like, pre MLB.TV also.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  So the way that you were actually able to consume the sport was very different. And I think maybe due in part to the way the A’s run their franchise. But also just due to the kind of accessibility, the relative accessibility of of other teams and players.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It got me far more interested in like, what was going on around the rest of the league. And like, actually enjoying seeing other teams have success. Other players have success. I feel like, weirdly, this isn’t fair. But like, Mike Trout was one of the first non-A’s players who I was like, watching religiously.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It’s like, obviously. But that was, it was just kind of like, Oh–

BOBBY:  Why? He can’t even get his team to the playoffs? Like why were you watching him?

ALEX:  Right he’s–

BOBBY:  He’s overrated–

ALEX:  –overrelatable.

BOBBY:  –in a bust.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  No, I hear you. I think I had like a personal transformation as to how I thought about baseball. Like how seriously analytically, I thought about baseball, from like a sabermetric perspective, at the same time that we were starting the podcast. And that was because I was reading a ton of FanGraphs, instead of going to class or, instead of paying attention in class, I was there physically, just not mentally, right. And I was listening to a ton of effectively wild and and just like, having my mind expanded as to what you could actually pay attention to and think was cool in the baseball world. Rather than just kind of the the intangible things like fandom love. The feeling of being at the ballpark like a beer at a game, a hot dog, like all that stuff has always been really important to me. And then I feel like doing the podcast, and also just kind of like, coming of age at a time where so much baseball media is accessible to us. Has been able to, like add those things into my general love and pleasure for the game. As opposed to just like making me into one type of fan or another. I feel that we talk about like, types of fans or what people like about the game in such a binary way. And it’s not really always like that. And that’s what the podcast has kind of proven to me is that we bring on people who are much more analytically focused and talk to them, and we can still enjoy that. And they can still enjoy being on the podcast. And we bring on people who are much more I would say, like qualitatively interested in the game versus being quants. And that’s all fine. And that’s all good. And that’s what makes baseball so rich and beautiful and rewarding to be a fan of.

ALEX:  Yeah, I agree. The last thing I’ll say is I think I just became far more aware of baseball’s culture war. And just like the way–

BOBBY:  How do you feel about that? Do you feel good that you’re much more aware of the culture war now?

ALEX:  I don’t, I mean–

BOBBY:  You’re on the frontlines, dawgs.

ALEX:  I think I just, I started to, you start to realize and this is just like a part of getting older and learning about the world is like sports doesn’t exist in a vacuum, right? You see how intertwined it is with the rest of society and how it’s how, you know, our our world’s worst inclinations are fed into the sport and vice versa. Yeah, I don’t know if that’s a, if that’s a good or or bad thing for my fandom. It’s broken my brain a little bit.

BOBBY:  Well, we actually got a question about that. How, how do you deal with the fact that your brain has been broken from talking about baseball or looking at baseball or analyzing baseball in this way? So let’s, let’s go to our next question.

VOICEMAIL 2:  Hey, guys, it’s me, Jamie, again. I call a lot, but because I love you guys. I just wanted to, I was having some thoughts. And, you know, I just got back from broadcasting a high school baseball game. So reminder that baseball is alive and well and awesome, out of the hands of greedy billionaires. But I was just thinking about how, you know, I’ve kind of, you know, honestly, disengaged a little bit from the podcasts recently. Because I’ve just been so desensitized to all these horrible things that are happening in the negotiations right now. I mean, I, I feel like it’s kind of the same as you know, the way I treat, you know, climate change. Is this horrible thing that is pissing me off so much this ignorance from people in power and like, I just have to check out for my own sanity. And I mean, I was just wondering if you guys kind of like, feel a need to stay in it, you know, as people who do this podcast and stuff. But I mean, I love you guys for you know, keep continuing on with that and respect you so much for it. But I, it’s really hard for me. So I was just wondering kind of your your thoughts on that? Thanks, guys!

BOBBY:  How do you avoid nihilism, Alex? In all aspects of your life? I think that we’ve probably slipped into baseball nihilism at moments where–

ALEX:  Moments.

BOBBY:  Yeah, but honestly, though, I don’t feel like we’re that, we don’t like fear monger about how baseball is dead and ruined, and we can never make it better. You know, like, one of the most frustrating things, for me personally is like discourse without solution oriented conversation in it. Like we can have discourse all of the time about how or why baseball is being ruined by billionaires. But then also, every once in a while, we need to like reground ourselves and talk about what would it look like without those people. And I think that we’ve done a pretty decent job enough so that I don’t feel the sensation that Jamie is feeling every time we get in front of the microphones to do this podcast. But obviously, it leaves a sour taste in your mouth all the time. In a, in a kind of like, I guess I just have to shrug and be cynical way that there’s like 15 moments for me like that every week, you know, when it comes to baseball. And we make jokes about like 12 of those moments. And then there are three moments where I’m like, I don’t even feel like making a joke about this, you know what I mean? And at the end of the day, like, our passion for talking about the things that are wrong in the baseball world only exists. Because we actually love the sport and the community and the good aspects of it so much. And so if I can, at the end of a long podcast where I like, feel like I’m just throwing my hands up a lot. If I can finally like reorient myself to that, I It feels more cathartic than crushing. And it’s interesting that he compares it to climate change, because I also feel that way about climate change. And then I hear pe- I hear people who dedicate their lives to studying climate change or to climate activism. I hear people be like, you have to resist that urge, you know, to just throw your hands up and feel nihilistic about it. Because there are still things that we can do. And then I feel like I have to be that person for baseball, you know. You have to resist the urge to just completely give up. But I don’t blame anybody who feels that to the point where they are pushed away from the sport. Like the, like the, the greedy billionaires who run the game, have done their their part in pushing away as many people as they can.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, I find it exhausting to consume the sport a lot. And again, it it extends beyond just baseball to other, like just living under late capitalism.

BOBBY:  Yeah, we’ve had practice elsewhere.

ALEX:  Right. I just, it is really hard not to, like I feel like my emotions to some extent, get sort of flattened where I’m like, I don’t actually have a intelligent way to think about this thing. I’m just like, wow, fucking normal world, man, okay.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I guess you’re just gonna get the team for parts.

BOBBY:  Sure.

ALEX:  And I think if anything, you know, during this podcast is a good exercise for me of like, trying to push beyond that, for all the times that we just kind of throw our hands up in the air on this podcast, I think we do a fair amount of, I think I get reinvigorated by seeing the communities of fans out there who really give a shit about their team, about their their fan base, about their city. And this extends to minor league teams and cities almost maybe more intently, right? Seeing how many people have like, cared and checked in about the state of minor league players over the last couple years has been really like when things feel really bleak about this sport. Which is most of the time knowing that there are millions of people out there who see this as an issue that needs to be rectified and talked about is heartening. That’s why doing the T shirts, and donate the proceeds to to More Than Baseball has been, I feel like a really fun exercise, a really fun project for us.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Because it has, because it has allowed us to connect with fans in a way that I think we probably wouldn’t otherwise, right? There’s kind of a shared sense of value and responsibility, almost. As consumers of the sport to say, hey, maybe there’s a better way?

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think so there are so many things and systems in our world baseball being just one of them, that are completely stacked against everybody except capital. As you said, like, so many aspects of late capitalism, we’ve had practice with dealing with this kind of thing. And I just think you have to pick and choose the things that you want to hold space in still. Because it’s, it’s much harder than it should be to like, actually hold space and affect change in different parts of the world. And you have to choose the things that you’re not going to let them ruin for you. Some of the best things in the world are commoditized and commercialized. And, frankly, co-opted for profit by like the worst people in our country. And a lot of things that I love, are on that list. Like, if you think about, I like going to museums. I’m not like an art history buff or anything like that. But I like the feeling of going to museum and seeing art, and whatever it makes me like evoke. And like being in that space. The art world is not doing great, like the art world is not helping out most people that it should.

ALEX:  Like mon- money launder.

BOBBY:  Exactly, on the timeline that it should. But does that mean that I shouldn’t like enjoy going to museum? No. And and baseball is the same way. Like those are, those guys are artists, not, not for the purposes of being excluded from being considered workers. But what they do is what baseball players do at a high level. Or even at a low level, like the game is art, to me. And so there are some things that you just though they have been commoditized and co-opted that you have to remove yourself from that, that worldview sometimes and just appreciate them for what they are, even though you have to like buy into it at a certain financial level to access it. I mean, until we change a lot of things about society, you’re not gonna be able to change that about Baseball. So I think that we should just enjoy Baseball in the interim.

ALEX:  Well put.

BOBBY:  Thank you! Uhm.

ALEX:  Let people enjoy things.

BOBBY:  Yeah, let people enjoy things.

ALEX:  I think we need to remind ourselves of that, from time to time.

BOBBY:  Like you and I? Or or like–

ALEX:  What, I–

BOBBY:  –via the society?

ALEX:  No, I think that like me personally, like for all the, the frustrations and and venting that we do here. I think sometimes I need to remind myself to take a step back and be like, damn, this is just a sport, you know. Like we can enjoy–

BOBBY:  Some people just like the Rays.

ALEX:  Right. I;’m like–

BOBBY:  Some people think they’re doing a good job.

ALEX:  Yeah. And maybe that’s not the worst thing in the world. Like maybe you don’t like, I don’t know, I feel this way about against so many issues where you know, health care, you get really frustrated. And I, I don’t really have a solution, because I’m, I think I’m pretty dumb. But I just, I just think we should all have it. You know, and–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –like I think our sports should be, should be better.

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  But, but if, if you think your sport is doing okay, or your team is doing okay, that’s fine. I’m not mad about it.

BOBBY:  Yeah. And and ultimately, like, if people are already happy with baseball, that’s fine. In that case, I think you’ll still be happy with baseball once it’s better.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You know what I mean?

ALEX:  Right,

BOBBY:  And like, but we need to make space to not be mad at those people. 

ALEX:  Yeah, I agree. 

BOBBY:  Yeah, I see what you’re saying. Uhm, we got a couple team specific questions. You want to do some Phillies questions real quick?

ALEX:  Sure.

BOBBY:  Breathe in orange fire. asks, how much joy can we having a good conscience looking at the Phillies outfield defense numbers this season? I believe, breathe in orange fire, according to their profile photo is an Astros fan. So they’re saying how much can we laugh at the Phillies defense, just just as a primer for the listeners. That outfield will feature Nick Castellanos, Odubel Herrera, and Kyle Schwarber- Kyle Schwarbe,r and Bryce Harper, for less than stellar defenders. And then their infield will supposedly have Rhys Hoskins and Alec Bowman, [1:06:13], they’re not great defenders either at this point in their careers. So how much before it becomes bad natured laughing? And how bad a team’s defenses?

ALEX:  Yeah, the chances that you’re gonna see incredibly awful defensive displays on a regular basis, I think is maybe not as high as one would think, you know, defense is the kind of thing I think plays out–

BOBBY:  Over a larger sample.

ALEX:  –over a larger sample size. And, and the kind of thing that maybe you cannot even always see with your eye, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Where a guy misses catching a fly ball, because he maybe doesn’t have the range, but, and maybe sometimes you say, oh, a better defender gets that. Or maybe you’re just kind of like, dude, get the shit out of the ball. And I went to the wall, like, what are you gonna do, you know?

BOBBY:  Yeah. I think it’s funny that the Phillies are just not caring about defense. Like I wouldn’t think of it was funny if I was a fan of that team.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  As I have not found it funny that the Mets have–

ALEX:  Yes, exactly, yeah.

BOBBY:  –not cared about the people for the better part of the last two decades. But there is a breakeven point where if you have good enough offense, it actually doesn’t matter. And, you know, Kyle Schwarber, playing left field for the Cubs team that won the World Series. Or for the Cubs team that just missed going to the World Series in 2015. He was basically the physical embodiment of that breakeven point. So to to widen the scope and do that for an entire team, I think is at least interesting. Like if we only have teams saying, We we want light hitting defensive outfielders because we’re afraid of what it will do for our team UZR. Like that, that gets pretty boring on a league wide basis is some Kyle Schwarber is good enough that he should be paid a lot of money to hit very well for a team.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And same with the Castellanos. So we got another question. But what do you think of the Castellanos signing? I think I’m going to not enjoy watching him hit against–

ALEX:  Right, yeah.

BOBBY:  –my team 17 times this year. That’s what I think about that.

ALEX:  Yeah, the Phillies are, man the Phillies are so weird. I–

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  –never know how to judge them.

BOBBY:  It made it even more complicated by the fact that Dave Dombrowski is their GM.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And yet, they still haven’t really made the huge trade.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That he is known for, I guess, because they don’t really have the prospects to do it the way that the Red Sox do.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah, I think you may not enjoy, enjoy watching them but Nick Castellanos is good.

BOBBY:  I’m worried for the like, cultural events that him being on the Phillies is gonna cause.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like the, the cauldron of Mets nonsense. And Nick Castellanos is powered.

ALEX:  Right, there on a collision course.

BOBBY:  Yeah, they really are. Like, that’s, that’s a lot of explosive material in one place.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Uhm, the Castellanos signing is like, it strikes me as the kind of thing that is, that is actually maybe indicative that the sport is not totally broken. That free agency is not completely broken. Now, do I think that the Phillies should use that as an excuse not to go like sign good bullpen pieces? No or or sign someone who can start a game that has not been [1:09:13] if he’s still starting games for them? I know that’s a sore subject for Philadelphia fans. But no, I don’t think that I think that the Phillies should be spending up to Luxury Tax because they play in a big market and have had enough successful runs that they should have enough money in the coffers. But he Castellanos is not a perfect player. He’s a player who does a couple things really well. You know, like slugging, extra base hits, he has a good arm. But he’s the kind of guy that teams have talked themselves out of signing for 5 years. $100 million.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And that he got that contract is like, a a a good indicator that maybe there are a few teams who are not totally out on spending money on good players.

ALEX:  Yeah, he is kind of the anti-Moneyball type of player, right. Where he’s not necessarily a great defender. He doesn’t walk at above average rates or anything–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –like that.

BOBBY:  He just hits.

ALEX:  He just, he just hits–

BOBBY:  [1:10:11] he gets it.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. So yeah, you’re right. I think it’s cool that teams actually are still willing to kind of reward that playing that pool a little bit. It’s going to be insufferable if he like has a a down year. I, and I think it’s *sigh*, it’s really unfortunate that anytime this kind of thing happens where I you know, I managed to find a little joy and a piece of news I’m like, *sigh* how’s this gonna get fucked up from?

BOBBY:  The Galaxy brain that’s gonna be going on in that outfield between Bryce Harper’s beautiful mind.

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  Nick Castellanos [1:10:46]

ALEX:  Oh my gosh.

BOBBY:  Existentialism is gonna be really special. So I’m looking forward to that, if nothing else. All right, we we’re running short on time here. So I’m just going to bang through a couple of these that we got. We got, we got a question from Shrimp Factory, Shrimp Factory, Alex, thank you for writing Shrimp Factory. Given how Collective Bargaining Tax conscious the Red Sox have been, as of late, and sign the fact that they signed Trevor Story. What are the chances of keeping both Rafael Devers and Xander Bogaerts, I think, pretty low, pretty low based on ownership priority. Though, that is a false binary to have to choose between those two and I think that the Red Sox and [1:11:26] could, to me, it would be surprising if they chose to sign Story instead of resign Bogaerts.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You know what I mean? Like, that feels like an unforced error. If ultimately, you don’t plan on going over the Competitive Balance Tax for a couple of years, in order to keep all three of those players. So you already got rid of Mookie Betts. So what was that for? If you can’t keep Bogaerts and Devers.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like, ostensibly when you traded Mookie it was because a couple guy, a bunch of guys were going to be coming up soon, and you needed the space to keep those guys. So then to go out and sign Trevor Story wouldn’t make a ton of sense. It’s like when the Thunder traded James Harden and then spent even more money than it would have kept than it would have cost to keep James Harden. Just because they felt bad about trading James Harden.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Learning into a really great player.

ALEX:  Like they don’t need to do this kind of roulette through players.

BOBBY:  No, they didn’t–

ALEX:  I mean, no–

BOBBY:  –to sign Story.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. So–

BOBBY:  Though it’s cool that they did, especially if they’re going to go over the Competitive Balance Tax now.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We also, we got a question from Matthew, who wrote in to say, how fun is it that the Twins traded for Gary Sanchez and now have to go immediately to an arbitration hearing to explain how he sucks as a way to suppress the salary? That’s even played for them yet, the first thing to welcome in him in the door is a arbitration hearing.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  How much, how much of the Yankees work are you allowed to just plagiarize?

ALEX:  Right. Like, can you go to them and be like, so we know you’re already thinking about this. You’ve been through this before.

BOBBY:  Why don’t we just switch out, you know, Command F, Command replace–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –all of the stuff that says the Yankees we’ll put Twins there.

ALEX:  Yeah. Or do you just pull up Phil Muchnick archive?

BOBBY:  True.

ALEX:  He’s kind of done a lot of the the work for you.

BOBBY:  Exactly. We got a question from Chip, who says, my favorite thing that happens in Moneyball is Brad Pitt eating [1:13:18] popcorn out of a coffee filter while trading for Ricardo Rincon. What snack would you guys want to eat out of coffee, out of a coffee filter watching baseball this year? Just an absurd question. Thanks, Chip. You’re the best. My go to snack during baseball games is sunflower seeds.

ALEX:  Does that mean you need two filters? One to hold the seeds and one to hold the the shells?

BOBBY:  Yeah. Yep, it does. Unless I’m outside in which you can just in which case you can just spits seeds on the ground.

ALEX:  That’s true, yeah.

BOBBY:  What is your go to baseball snack?

ALEX:  My go to baseball snack. Like if I’m like watching a baseball game, especially at the park.

BOBBY:  Is popcorn, right?

ALEX:  I would do like popcorn.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t make popcorn at home every time I watch a baseball game. Although maybe that should change.

BOBBY:  I don’t think you need that. That’s a lot of butter. You watch a lot of baseball?

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  I think the funniest part of this tip is right is that he’s eating out of a coffee filter, [1:14:19]–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –coffee filter. It’s just a nice little packaged image of what Billy Beane is, who he is and what he believes. Is the day old coffee filter of the Oakland A’s. All right, let’s close it out with two voicemails, Alex.

VOICEMAIL 3:  Hi, guys, first time, long time, this is Alex. For the pod, I’m really thinking a lot about the idea of expansion. And how the idea of this current group of 30 owners willingly choosing to split up all of their pots an additional two ways, kind of fundamentally goes against the way that they’ve acted. And it’s kind of leading me to believe that they wouldn’t want to expand anytime soon. Which is what makes the Oakland and Tampa Bay situations, so convenient for them to kind of cover up. I believe this is the longest period of time that baseball has gone without expanding, basically, since the first expansion. And you would think it would be a move that they should do. And the expansion fee would obviously be enormous. But over the long run, it would obviously, I think, very quickly, in fact, become a financial detriment to keep splitting whatever pots they get an additional two cuts worth to 1/32 instead of 1/30. I would love your guys’s thoughts on kind of how much do you think expansion actually seems likely, if at all? Because I’m starting to think it’s not likely whatsoever, Thanks!

BOBBY:  This is I mean, this is a good question. And it’s obviously the devils in the details here. Like, it depends how much each team would have to pay in like an entrance fee. And how much the owners would prioritize like the immediate financial gain. And what they could then do with that money, like how they would reinvest it into, you know, a new stadium, or, you know, like a new streaming service platform that they could then resell for $4 billion in the future like they did with MLB Advanced Media. But it’s all about short term versus long term gains. And I actually think I would push back a little bit on Alex’s question and say, I think MLB owners have given up long term profits for the sake of short term gains. I would argue that it would be better for the sport to take short term hits on something so that you could some things like, you know, RSN money so that you could get better access or ticket prices, so that so that people could have better access to your sports in the long run, they be lifelong paying customers, as opposed to just people who tap out after three years. And so I think that that is an example of them putting short term gains in front of long term profits, which expansion, they would get huge checks right away. And even though they would be splitting it 32 ways instead of 30. You have to think that they will expand into larger markets. And so then those larger markets will then become revenue sharing payers versus revenue sharing receivers, as its outlined, as the revenue sharing system is outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. So I, I don’t think that there is any like big financial roadblock to them expanding, I think it’s just in terms of like creativity and actually getting it done.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And like the desire to do it, because it’s a lot of work. And I don’t know how much the power brokers of baseball want to put that work in to actually make it work, work out in the long term and make those viable markets remain viable.

ALEX:  Yeah, wouldn’t be the first time they procrastinated on a, on getting a job done for the good of the sport. And, and obviously, you add two more teams to the mix. That means that your broadcasting deals are in theory going to go up, there’s going to be more money that is coming into the sport as a result. Because you have two more markets that are in play.

BOBBY:  Yeah, to more markets where you’re selling, where you’re selling jerseys.

ALEX:  Yeah,

BOBBY:  Two more markets, where you’re getting RSN deals. Two more markets, where you’re bullying local governments into sending you tax rebates–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –they build stadiums.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like a lot of all of that stuff that makes each individual market profitable now will then be the same for those two new markets.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Maybe even more so in the case of some more like, look like Las Vegas, who are just dying to have more sports teams, and they’re willing to compromise like most of their ethics to do so.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Yeah. So I would hurt in the long term? I mean, maybe but not noticeably.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think it’s, it’s hard to say because if those two new teams become like bad faith actors, and that you have two more teams like monkeying with service time, like, yeah, it could hurt. But then at the same time, like you now have two more teams that could potentially be interested in free agents. And you know, like, there’s a whole litany of things that would change and I don’t know how much we can address them until we know like what the markets would be and–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –how how the expansion would actually be formalized.

ALEX:  Right, who the billionaires would actually be and you would think that they would want to court more folks who are splashy, who are splashy, this Steve Cohen types. Although I I maybe not maybe–

BOBBY:  Not Jerry Reinsdorf.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Like we did this wrong once now you can. You guys should listen to me then. All right, let’s, let’s do one final voicemail, real quick.

VOICEMAIL 4:  Hey there guys. So my cousin’s boyfriend is a low level minor leaguer in the Washington system. Nice guy, I’ve met him a couple of times. And I expect to see him at an upcoming family wedding. So I’m looking for advice of how I can bend his ear and give him something encouraging, some encouraging, or warm feelings towards the Players Associate- Association side of things. Which of course, he should be so lucky to join that association someday and play in the big leagues. And I don’t want him to be afraid about how the lockout is imperiling his livelihood and this whole thing is such a mess. And what could I say to this kid to get him thinking about his value and sticking to his guns during the lockout? Thanks.

BOBBY:  This is a, this is a really interesting question, I thought. Like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –because so often we talk about these groups of people as monoliths, but as we’ve discussed with the MLB Players Association, ma- the minor leagues are made up of people who all have different opinions about how things should work. I don’t think that there’s probably a predominant view that the minor league system is messed up and that you’re getting ripped off. But like we’ve talked about with, you know, with Harry Marino, for example, in the past, not every minor leaguer has the bandwidth to think about that, that on an active basis while they’re trying to, you know, hit higher than the Mendoza line.

ALEX:  Right. They’re often well aware of it, right? Like most minor leaguers are aware of the conditions in which they play and that–

BOBBY:  How much they’re being exploited.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. But, right, and many of them don’t just like you said, don’t have the bandwidth to actually do, like, get angry about that, which–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –I get.

BOBBY:  I think, I how I would approach it would be, and I apologize that it’s taken us so long to answer this question. We’ve just been obviously bombarded with news and a bunch of lockout stuff. So obviously, the listeners heard that this question came in before the lockout. But even now that it’s over, I don’t think that it really changes the approach that I would have to discussing this, to discussing something like this with someone who’s in the minor leagues. But the approach that I would take would just be like, to talk about how much I love baseball, you know, and, and to try to relate to this person, about their love for the sport? And the like, collective societal value that even something like Minor League Baseball has to a person like me. And then, and then have that be sort of like the setting off point from from which you start to discuss like, yeah, and it’s pretty, it’s pretty messed up. They’re trying to like monkey around with how many teams there are, and how many minor league players they’re gonna retain on a roster. And, obviously, it’s messed up how little you guys get paid, like that kind of thing. But, but I wouldn’t go into it being like, Hey, are you ready to burn down the house? Because I think most people, it’s actually not really that productive for them to think like, in the moment how crushing their exploitation is, because then, then it’s like, what can you even do–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –about it? That would be my approach.

ALEX:  Yeah, I agree. I would just want to hear about his experiences on like a human level. As you said, we, we talk very broadly about the state of the minor leagues, and the the poor conditions. But these things vary so much from player to player from team to team league league. fit my guess is, while every player by and large experiences a lot of the same contours of the minor leagues. I think they probably all experienced those things in different ways, and are impacted by them. I, you know, on a uniquely human–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –level, right? So this guy might not be sleeping on a floor with seven other guys in a room. And also, you know, has has PB and J’s for breakfast, lunch and dinner every day. And also is spending 12 hours on a bus every day. I mean, maybe, maybe he has all these things, in–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –in which case, like, here’s your poster boy, for the sake of the minor leagues.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Uhm, but I think if you can relate on that human level, it becomes far more, it becomes far easier to actually open the door to that sort of encouragement. It’s also a good way to find out like, politically how you, how he feels about that right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like, like–

BOBBY:  Has anyone approached you about a minor league union?

ALEX:  Right. Right. And, and, you know, the answer to all of this might be, yeah, sucks, but like–

BOBBY:  It is what it is.

ALEX:  That’s, that’s the deal, right? This is what you sign up to do and which case we maybe have a little more work to do.

BOBBY:  Yeah, we have a lot more work to do. I think that you, you’re right, you’re right. That’s like, relate to someone on a human level is never bad advice. Let’s wrap it here, Alex. Thank you everybody for listening. Just a quick reminder that you can buy Unionize The Minors shirts, and more Tipping Pitches merch for the proceeds to be donated to More Than Baseball, which will help said minor leaguers. You can follow us on Twitter, tipping_pitches, you can email us tippingpitchespod@gmail.com You can call in with your own voicemails and questions 785-422-5881. Not sure, I think over the next couple of weeks, our schedule might shift slightly because I have a lot of travel responsibilities. But we will be doing the all-gift draft again, as we do every year. So prepare yourselves for that. And we- we’ll be opening communication about when the episodes are not coming out on Monday. Anything else, Alex?

ALEX:  I guess keep your eyes peeled for Tipping Pitches trench coats?

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  We have, we’ve already been–

BOBBY:  Own Masonic emblem–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –right over the heart.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  No, that’s it. If we let the listeners get out of here.

BOBBY:  We should, we should let ourselves get out of here. Thanks, everybody for listening. We’ll see you next week.

[1:26:17]

[Music]

[1:26:31]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most, Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya!

BOBBY:  This ad has a 504 Gateway Timeout, this pop-up ad on this article. All right, here we go!

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMarch 21, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB CBA, MLB lockout, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on Need A Trench Coat?	
This Is All The Fans’ Fault

With the added perspective three days of a CBA has brought, Alex and Bobby gather to discuss the true culprit behind MLB’s lockout: that’s right, it’s you, the fan. They also discuss MLB’s latest cash grab at the expense of baseball’s accessibility, before answering a slew of listener questions about the CBA and Taylor Swift.

Songs featured in this episode:

Olivia Rodrigo — “jealousy, jealousy”, “brutal”• Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I don’t think anybody can deny that we got a lot of important news in the last week. But for our purposes, your purposes, my purposes, the purposes of the Tipping Pitches Podcast, undoubtedly the most important of that news. More important than the news that caused us to do our first ever Emergency Podcast was that noted, investor, businessman, Baseball luminary. Alex Rodriguez, is funding a stock market for human beings. And so I thought that we would gather here, four days removed from the signing of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. And instead of answering listener questions, instead of talking about the fallout from the CBA, we would talk about how Alex Rodriguez plans to make money off OBP.

ALEX:  Mojo baby! I’m extremely excited for this. I mean, this is kind of the moment I think we’ve been waiting for right is, you know, we we talk a lot about how players athletes are often just kind of flattened into numbers–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –on a spreadsheet, right? This is what Moneyball–

BOBBY:  Right, exactly.

ALEX:  –the revolution is kind of brought to us. And this just feels like the logical conclusion of that right, stripped them of all humanity as possible. And literally make them little arrows pointing up, up or down.

BOBBY:  Can you read the the tweet that rocked our world?

ALEX:  Of course, this is from Kim Bhasin over at Bloomberg News.

BOBBY:  Where I get all of my important baseball news for this podcast.

ALEX:  Absolutely.

BOBBY:  Anytime we need to prep I go straight to Bloomberg.

ALEX:  A-Rod and Marc Lore are co founders in a new company, aiming to be a stock market for pro-athletes. Allowing fans to buy and sell players whose values rise and fall based on their performances on the field. It’s called Mojo.

BOBBY:  Anytime you find yourself writing the sentence, buy and sell players? Or buy and sell people buy and sell really anything living.

ALEX:  Uhm.

BOBBY:  You just need a mirror, you need to take a long look into it. And you need to ask yourself, how did we get here? Not 10 years ago, you and I were going to see this man hit home runs in Yankee Stadium. And now he is the owner of the Minnesota Timberwolves and somehow starting a stock market to buy and sell players. Which to me might seem like a conflict of interest. But I guess we’re kind of we’re we’re post conflict of interest as a society.

ALEX:  It’s a conflict of interest, conflict of morals too, right? On–

BOBBY:  What’s, what’s the conflict? It’s just immoral.

ALEX:  Right. Well, I guess there you go. I actually it aligns very perfectly with, with where A-Rod is at. Mark Lore said, said in an email to Bloomberg. I’ve always thought the idea of a sports stock market was the Holy Grail. The vision could transform sports and fandom as a whole for years–

BOBBY:  What is. what is always? What is always? How old were you when you thought that does that we, the idea of a sport stock market was the quote unquote, “Holy Grail”?

ALEX:  For the concept to truly work you need underlying principles like intrinsic value, and instant liquidity. You know, things I’ve always associated with other people. How can I get instant liquidity? With you Bobby Wagner [4:23]–

BOBBY:  Which one of us [4:24]–

ALEX:  –from me.

BOBBY:  –liquidity here. I think it’s you, I think it’s you.

ALEX:  Yeah, I feel like I’m more intrinsic value.

BOBBY:  Oh, so your your assets are kind of tied up elsewhere?

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  And I just have cash under my mattress?

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Like what like what you see is what you get, it’s right there.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Me, I’m gonna have to move some things around for me to really get anything valuable to it.

BOBBY:  The metaphor is so far gone. I don’t even know what we’re talking about anymore. We should get to the actual Tipping Pitches Podcast unless you have more to say about Alex Rodriguez? Literally buying and selling human beings.

ALEX:  I don’t, all I want to say is, I don’t have anything more to say. But all I want to say is that while this is pretty morally reprehensible, I think.

BOBBY:  It’s a gray area.

ALEX:  It does not strike me as incredibly far off from the the direction we were headed anyway with sports betting and fantasy sports. Which is to basically create a commodity out of putting $1 amount on how a certain person is performing at their job. And you can argue that Alex Rodriguez is a grifter and this is his ultimate grift.

BOBBY:  Period. That’s the end of, that’s the argument [5:41]–

ALEX:  [5:41] you can argue that.

BOBBY:  You should argue that, probably?

ALEX:  But, you know what? Kudos for him, for for taking the plunge that no one else was brave enough to do.

BOBBY:  This is the logical conclusion of like, 15 different things–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –in our society, what you said fantasy sports, commoditizing athletes, Moneyball. But it’s also the logical conclusion of Alex Rodriguez, individual human man. The logical conclusion of like, web three, even, you know, he’s going to be using, like, non-fungible token technology–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –for this human stock market. But also just the logical conclusion of the stock market in general, you just get bored with companies, why not ported over to sports? So I guess I’ll I’ll say I wasn’t surprised. But it it never really, you’re never really ready to wake up to that tweet. Like 8:30am, Eastern time. You’re never ready for that.

ALEX:  No, you really aren’t. You’re never ready, really to read the article and see that Joshua Kushner, brother of one Jared Kushner and husband of one Karlie Kloss. That’s, that’s NYU alum, Karlie Kloss, I don’t know, is she an alum? Did she graduate?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t have to tell.

BOBBY:  TBD, I don’t know. A lot of people go to NYU. How many people finish?

ALEX:  Can relate. Always good–

BOBBY:  I know you finished you sat next to me. I saw you go across that stage.

ALEX:  I don’t remember it, but I’ll believe you. Always good when your business partner has a section on his Wikipedia page.

BOBBY:  Oh, I thought you were going to talk about me, your business partners.

ALEX:  Well, do you have a section on your Wikipedia page that reads 2017 Saudi Arabia trip and ethics concerns? Because if you do, we might have to reevaluate this.

BOBBY:  We both know that I don’t have a Wikipedia page. And I never will because the bobby Wagner Wikipedia page goes to the NFL linebacker, who by the way–

ALEX:  Hmm.

BOBBY:  –was cut from the Seattle Seahawks last week. And I’d like to say to all the people sending nice messages to that Bobby Wagner, you’re attacking the wrong guy. I’ve gotten hundreds of messages on Twitter, being like they did you dirty. They’ve wronged you, you were the heart and soul of this team. And I just don’t, I don’t want to respond to any of them. Because I’d like them to just think that the real Bobby Wagner seeing them somewhere in the world.

ALEX:  We all need a little hope these days.

BOBBY:  Exactly. Uhm, we are going to talk about baseball being back. We’re going to talk about having a couple of days of perspective on the new Collective Bargaining Agreement. And we’re going to spend a ton of time at the end of the pod answering all of your questions about said CBA. And some other topics as well. But before we do that, I am maybe someday will be the third most famous Bobby Wagner?

ALEX:  And I’m the one and only not famous and never will be, Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you’re listening to Tipping Pitches.

[8:39]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  So I believe that you are going to take the reins here, Alex, from what I understand. You’ve been doing a lot of prep and research for this. And you’ve acquired a column to be read dramatically bad take traumatic reading.

ALEX:  Well–

BOBBY:  Take it away, my friend.

ALEX:  –I will leave it to you in the listeners to determine whether or not this is a bad take.

BOBBY:  Oh, an ambiguous take dramatic reading.

ALEX:  Well, let’s see. This was a, this was being circulated around baseball Twitter, really in. This was a day or two before the lockout was officially over. So while it’s newsworthiness has maybe past, I think its relevance has been on.

BOBBY:  A take, a take is evergreen.

ALEX:  It is evergreen.

BOBBY:  It’s not tied to the moment.

ALEX:  Just like this take in the Canadian based Globe and Mail. Titled baseball fans are mostly–

BOBBY:  [9:47] has a Globe and Mail. I thought that that was just the UK.

ALEX:  I feel fairly certain that there are only three news properties, three news names.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Baseball fans, you may be aware of this being a baseball fan, are mostly to blame for the MLB lockdown.

BOBBY:  Oh, yes, I saw this tape going around. And I hoped that you might have interest in reading it. But I didn’t read it myself to keep my ears pure, like some listeners at home.

ALEX:  Well, I am going to read some of this to you. And I would like you to determine whether or not the case is actually made effectively. Because maybe there is a case to be made that fans are to blame for the lockout.

BOBBY:  My heart is–

ALEX:  Maybe!

BOBBY:  Yeah. I don’t think fans get enough blame for enough things.

ALEX:  I agree.

BOBBY:  Everybody’s doing like what’s in the best interest of the fans? And I’m like, nah, some fans don’t need our best interests in mind.

ALEX:  The author of this is Cathal Kelly. He writes, “My the leads are always the best part of these”, you know.

BOBBY:  I know. Because also the thing about a bad take or a take dramatic reading, if we’re gonna leave it ambiguous. The thing is, there is no other part of it. It’s like four leads, and then the argument and then five kickers.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  They never write like a nut grow. They never do any of the other stuff that you’re supposed to put in an article. It’s just four different leads that they couldn’t settle on which one was the best?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. “It starts between all the rhetorical sparks emanating from the greedy owners and the greedy players.”

BOBBY:  Well, that to the stories.com get a byline on this one too?

ALEX:  “It’s difficult to spot the side that’s most to blame for Major League Baseball’s current lockout.”

BOBBY:  Sure.

ALEX:  “The fans”, good we’re, so we’re setting the scene here.

BOBBY:  It’s difficult to spot the side. And then the side is the fans. So this writer, though it was difficult, they’ve already identified it.

ALEX:  Right, which I mean, they’re doing the heavy lifting for us. “Though no one will blame them. The other two sides understand that all of this is only possible because of the fans. They didn’t just allow it to happen. They encouraged it.” Which is fair.

BOBBY:  I have lost the pronoun,s who is they? Who, who who allowed it to happen and who encouraged it? The fans?

ALEX:  The other two sides, the players and the owners understand that the fans are at fault.

BOBBY:  Okay. And the fans didn’t just allow it to happen, they encouraged it.

ALEX:  The fans get talked about a lot as though they are some monolithic victim and all of this.

BOBBY:  This is true. So far, so good.

ALEX:  It is true, yeah.

BOBBY:  That is true.

ALEX:  Commissioner Rob Manfred wrote them a whole letter a few days ago, and he quotes Manfred and saying that the clubs and our owners fully understand just how important it is to our millions of fans that we get the game on the field as soon as possible. He says, it’s hard to grasp how one can fully understand something that isn’t true. Unless Manfred believes the how important level here is not very. So baseball fans–

BOBBY:  Word salad just don’t understand anything that’s happening.

ALEX:  So the, I think the premise here is the baseball fans actually aren’t that interested in baseball. And Rob Manred kind of gets this maybe?

BOBBY:  So because fans are not as ravenous as other sports. The two sides are not as worried about offending them because they’re not they don’t love the sport as much. Is that the, is that the high wire act we’re we’re listening to here?

ALEX:  Well, we’re just getting into it. So so he says, that along with the owners and player,s Manfred does understand one thing about the fans that they are suckers.

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Now we’re resorting to name calling.

ALEX:  He goes on to list a number of of things that are wrong with the sport, right? That games are lasting longer than ever. That money and numbers he says are, quote, “coring the soul of baseball”. Which, sure, yeah, but the worse the team is the more cost to see.

BOBBY:  Maybe, maybe not true there, just, I don’t know if he did the homework on that one.

ALEX:  It’s that all of these things are done in the fans keep coming back.

BOBBY:  Ohhh..

ALEX:  The fans actually–

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  –a too ravenous–

BOBBY:  All right, I see what he’s saying now–

ALEX:  –showing the sport, right. They are rewarding [14:22]–

BOBBY:  The fans are [14:23] and–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –they’re allowing themselves to be that way.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  The fan, we’ve lost the alpha male baseball fan is the take here.

ALEX:  Right. So so–

BOBBY:  That’s pretty good. I, like of all the things that you could think to to to say, after the lockout right before the lockout is gonna end. All the takes that you could get out there and have wanting so badly to be, right? I actually kind of admire that this is the take that this person came up.

ALEX:  Right, the fans are letting MLB walk all over them. And frankly, it’s time for them to take the wheel back. He goes on to quote a interaction that he thinks somebody up a an interaction that he has construed that he thinks sums up this is dynamic, right? So the owners the league says, hey, we don’t feel like paying these guys if the stadiums are empty rented to COVID 2020. So we’re gonna bust the season down to a third of its usual length.

BOBBY:  That cool with you?

ALEX:  And the fans say sorry, what? And the league says no regular season all playoffs we good? The fans say yeah, okay, whatever, which I remember being very cool with how the 2020 season shook out.

BOBBY:  Yeah, right. Everybody fans were actually very pleased. They’re like this is how very harmonious the way that we got back to the field. Everything seems really saved the whole time. Everybody loved it.

ALEX:  What do you do with an audience that undemanding? You start working them over a lot harder. And that’s what’s happening here.

BOBBY:  Power vacuum, there’s a power vacuum and fans have not taken enough.

ALEX:  If you’re one of the involved parties, what’s the lesson you’ve been taught by fans? That crime in parentheses against the national pastime pays. Which once again, I–

BOBBY:  That’s kind of a bar.

ALEX:  It kind of is a bar.

BOBBY:  Should we, should we steal that?

ALEX:  Crime against the national pastime pays.

BOBBY:  Put that on the fucking t shirt.

ALEX:  That what I, what I respect about this column is that he acknowledges that the owners are kind of petty and craven he applies similar logic to the players. Which I may not agree with as as wholeheartedly as he does.

BOBBY:  Isn’t he really said much about the players?

ALEX:  No. So he he goes on to outline what he thinks is the tactics of the league, right? You you pretend to negotiate but you don’t negotiate or pretend too hard. Let them hate you all you want and then you chisel the players until they turn on each other. So far they haven’t done that which it turns out they didn’t end up doing so one of his theses points is down.

BOBBY:  Well, it depends. That’s how much you want to read into the Executive Subcommittee who is in the room negotiating voting Aido against the deal everybody else voting yes.

ALEX:  Read all you want.

BOBBY:  Uhm, I actually can’t read it I don’t I don’t know how and don’t want to.

ALEX:  If your labor it’s once again time to complain about making millions without sounding like you’re complaining. No one has figured out how to do that. But the players keep trying.

BOBBY:  Wow, safety’s off with this guy.

ALEX:  He, this is we’re getting in some weird territory. Even the style of dress changes in times of lockout. No more flash.

BOBBY:  What?!

ALEX:  Take Max Scherzer one of the union’s pointman. He loves a golf shirt. We we quote Jimmy Hoffa down here or allude–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –Jimmy Hoffa.

BOBBY:  Yes. Wow, this column has insane cocaine energy.

ALEX:  Uhh, that Faberge egg. He’s been thinking about forgetting his wife for Veterans Day, I genuinely don’t know what the fuck he’s talking about anymore.

BOBBY:  Wow! So, I mean, you could probably keep calling for for another 10 minutes–

ALEX:  This really goes on.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I’m–

BOBBY:  I’m actually sort of impressed. I think it’s good trolling.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Ultimately, I think that’s where I come out. I don’t know that it’s a a bad take. Because I don’t think he believes it.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like, there’s nobody in their right mind, who really would get their fingers cracking to write a column that was like, the lockout is the fans fault.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Because they like baseball too much. If they liked baseball less, then there would be no lockout.

ALEX:  If they really just held owners and players feet to the fire–

BOBBY:  Is what he’s calling for a general boycott of baseball. And then that way, they would have to hammer out the CBA. Because they would be so worried about fans not coming back because they’re boycotting sport.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And then neither sides pockets would be getting fat. Is that, is that what he thinks?

ALEX: That that seems to be the case, which which tracks, you know, given what we know about levels of fan engagement with the sport, and how it’s tied to profits in the sport.

BOBBY:  Yeah

ALEX:  Right? You know, as long as folks who come into the games, you’re gonna get rich if they leave, what are you going to do?

BOBBY:  Thank you for, thank you for bringing that to my attention.

ALEX:  Of co- well, I want to give you the counterpoint to this, okay?

BOBBY:  Okay. So you read another column? Like under, under a pen nam?

ALEX:  As you may know, I’ve been very intrigued by the the National Fans Union.

BOBBY:  Oh, okay. All right. So this was all just a long con for you to get on your soapbox–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –to tell me how I should join the National Fans Union. They Gotcha.

ALEX:  They did.

BOBBY:  They gotcha.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You join the email list and two weeks later, you’re using valuable real estate in the first 30 minutes of the podcast to tell me that I need to join the email list?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Is that what this is?

ALEX:  Well, well, I give you a nugget to maybe convince you to come over to our side, right?

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  The fans may have–

BOBBY:  Pause–

ALEX:  –free, one free hit, the fa- the fans may have caused the lockout. But–

BOBBY:  Did they also end it?

ALEX:  –we also ended it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, baby. Let’s go!

ALEX:  We saved baseball, guys says the email, we won’t take all the credit for facilitating the MLB-MLBPA deal that ends the lockout.

BOBBY:  Oh my God, yes, keep going.

ALEX:  But we consider it a win. We’re happy for the players, the owners and most importantly–

BOBBY:  We’re happy for the owners.

ALEX:  –the fans.

BOBBY:  We’re happy for the owners.

ALEX:  We are–

BOBBY:  We’re happy for the, I’m happy for the owners.

ALEX:  This work stoppage inspired and [20:34]–

BOBBY:  [20:34] would we have enough funds to run anti-abortion candidates all across this great land.

ALEX:  They are an important part of the political process here. Whether the owners were paying attention or not, right? Whether, whether the owners were really paying attention to the fan outpouring of support or not.

BOBBY:  Right, so whether we caused it or not, we caused it.

ALEX:  We believe the convergence of fan, anger and emotion was one positive outcome of this otherwise unpleasant chapter in Major League Baseball history. Because as you know, this isn’t over. And that’s about it as to the rationale for how we ended the lockout.

BOBBY:  This is a textbook case of of correlation–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –not causation, not causation. This is why people should pay attention in seventh-grade science. They think that because the lockout ended, two weeks after they took out a full page ad in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, that they caused the lockout to end the owner got spooked. And yet, no body has heard of them, except fucking you bringing them to this podcast to all of our listeners.

ALEX:  Well, you know what, because I think this is the way that we get real traction going. You know, like, you may not have realized–

BOBBY:  It was–

ALEX:  –impact you had–

BOBBY:  –it did start in the newspapers and the pamphlets, just like the Russian Revolution.

ALEX:  Seriously, we were going door to door saying, Excuse me, sir, have you heard the the good word of of Rob Manfred?

BOBBY:  Here’s the thing. Let me tell you one better.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  That MLB fans union isn’t even the real MLB fans union.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  The real MLB fans union is the friends we made along the way. No, I’m just kidding. The real MLB fans union is our friendship, no just kidding. The real MLB fans union is the Facebook page that I was invited to–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –from two guys that I–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –went High School with that I think they started in like 2015. I’m pretty sure I brought it up on the podcast at the time. And it’s like, borderline, like Reddit troll conservative level discourse. Mostly centered around the fact that Rob Manfred is a, is a literal clown. They put a lot of pictures of Rob Manfred with clown makeup and a clown nose on there, which I can’t, I can’t hate on that. And now it has like 1000s of members. When when I was invited in when I interned joined as like a sociological study and invited you. Correct me if I’m wrong, but I think there was like less than 50 people in it then.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Let me go see how many people are in there right now. 885 members, that’s pretty good, dawg. Like, you know how long it took us to get 885 followers on Twitter? Less than six years at this is that was a lower number than I was expecting.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s gonna be like 10,000. But that’s the real MLB fans union right there.

ALEX:  In all seriousness, as serious as you can get about this. I, the most generous reading you can give of this is that I don’t think it’s an awful idea for fans to realize their collective power.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  What is that power? I think maybe remains to be seen. And at this point, I don’t think there’s a way to actually organize or have a quote unquote, “seat at the table”. When it comes to bargaining issues like this.

BOBBY:  See that’s the table is the funniest thing.

ALEX:  It really is.

BOBBY:  It’s another example of the difference between ba- a bad faith person and negotiating in bad faith.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  There’s a difference between saying I want to see that the table like in a metaphorical cosmic sense. I want to see that the baseball table that happens in the sky, versus like a seat at the literal bargaining table. Like, you know, in between Max Scherzer and Rob Manfred.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That’s what you were asking for–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in the copy [24:32]–

ALEX:  Fans should be referenced in the CBA.

BOBBY:  My head is gonna explode. The notion of having to take into consideration fans of The Ringer and The Ringer CBA it’s really like, breaking my brain.

ALEX:  It’s a little scary to think about it–

BOBBY:  It’s being fucking terrifying to think about. Like we can’t, no, no, don’t start that precedent. Even for my fellow baseball fans, it’s not worth it.

ALEX:  All I can say is I I hope that you walk away from this conversation feeling more emboldened about your power–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –to influence when Robert D Manfred.

BOBBY:  Right, you came to this podcast trying to change hearts and minds?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And it’s, it’s yet to be seen if you have, we’ll have to hear from the listeners. Okay, should we talk about Major League Baseball in a more serious way now?

ALEX:  If you say so.

BOBBY:  Couple things that I wanted to talk to you about with a couple days, we’re now 3 days removed from when they signed the CBA. We obviously went into as much detail as we possibly could. And on that pod, we talked about being able to read the Collective Bargaining Agreement and go even further into detail on this podcast. Unfortunately, it has not the full document has not come out, at least to the best of our knowledge. So far, and and perhaps we will still do that at some point. We’re trying to get some guests who can help us go further into the weeds of how the negotiations went in the final days, but TBD on that front. For now, I wanted to talk to you about all of the loose ends that we didn’t really have the time to tie up on our emergency podcast on Thursday. One of those loose ends being well, actually, you know what, before we even get into that, Alex, let me ask you, has 3 days of hindsight, cleared up your vision at all? Do you feel the same way that you felt 3 days ago? Do you feel like maybe we were a little bit rosy on Thursday night? Because we were just excited that this was all over? And that we got to finally do the emergency CBA pod is over? Or are you even more excited about the CBA? Maybe you’re like, actually the CBA fuckin rules, dude.

ALEX:  Not enough sanctions on John Fisher in the Oakland A’s. The Oakland A’s who actually put–

BOBBY:  MLB fans union do anything about that? You know, like if you carry in a favor with those guys, according to them, you could just get them out of there.

ALEX:  Right. Well, you know what we’re having some I can’t actually divulge that much on the podcast.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Because we have some backroom conversations [27:12]–

BOBBY:  [27:12] going on.

ALEX:  –reading. Exactly. But what I can say–

BOBBY:  With, with big seat at the table comes big responsibility.

ALEX:  So I don’t know if you saw this, but the A’s are actually going to be phased back into the, into revenue sharing in the CBA. A contingent on them finding a ballpark in Oakland or anywhere else. So Oakland–

BOBBY:  [27:34] is a small market, but San Francisco is not

ALEX:  Correct.

BOBBY:  Gotcha. Okay, cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. That definitely is right. And true.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And moral.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And definitely doesn’t say anything about how owners view different markets correct based on the breakdown of the type of person that lives there.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. I don’t want to like I’m not going to talk about Chris Bassett for 20 minutes because you will need to steal the mic from me.

BOBBY:  Chris Bassett.

ALEX:  You, Starling Marte, Chris Bassett, Mark Kanna.

BOBBY:  Yeah, but you have Jed Lowrie. Do you even have–

ALEX:  [28:07] still?

BOBBY:  –it anymore? [28:07] you had.

ALEX:  Probably not.

BOBBY:  You had him. All right, you got one over on us with Jed Lowry, but we just are going to get everybody else. You you joke to me in a text message that we should just go all the way and get champion, Matt Olson.

ALEX:  I mean, I’m it would make rooting for the Mets even easier, I’m so serious.

BOBBY:  It would be kind of like how we just became one person. Like our teams just became one team and–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –in the location that we live.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Kind of a sign.

ALEX:  It is kind of a sign, right? To answer your original question like 10 minutes ago.

BOBBY:  If people haven’t noticed now that we’re in the same place, this podcast has become, like 40%, more unhinged.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Just pure chaos embodied. No, I don’t think my perspective on it has changed much. Because I tried to temper my expectations about it from the outset. I still have a lot of questions about some key issues in there regarding the international draft and its implementation, right? Which, which is something that’s still very up in the air, about, say the money that will be distributed to pre-arb players, which I know some of these things will address later on in the podcast with some listener questions.

BOBBY:  Well, well at least try.

ALEX:  Aside from those outstanding details, it strikes me as being pretty hard to actually get a full understanding of the implications of this. Without both seeing the tax but also without some time to actually see, like we talked about in the last episode, how owners will actually use and–

BOBBY:  Abuse.

ALEX:  –exploit this?

BOBBY:  Yeah. Well, I agree. I and I liked what Max Scherzer said about this when he did his first media availability from–

ALEX:  Did he said the first thing he did after getting assigned was drank a lot, me too.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you drink a lot of cough syrup and then went to bed, bro.

ALEX:  That’s yeah.

BOBBY:  And I was drinking coffee, riding hard off the the vibe that was MLB getting a new CBA. You’re not a real one?

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  You’re not a real one? Uhm, no, I liked what he said in that. He just spent a ton of time thinking about this. He likes just focus on baseball.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And I actually think that’s right. Like, obviously, we shouldn’t forget about the the labor dynamic between capital and workers here. And we of course, won’t. But how much constructive can we really learned by continuing to talk about this document? Not that much. I think that we should talk about stuff that is not in this document. We should talk about the continued minor league exploitation that none of this fixes. We should talk about, what we’re going to talk about in five minutes when we talk about the streaming deals that MLB is signing, that will allow owners to continue on the trend of monetizing the sport, while not actually reinvesting in the sport. Just monetizing it based off the external structures and factors of modern digital capitalism, you know. And I think that in two years, we should look back and we should say, or maybe even in one year, we should look back and say, how did that PR bonus pool work? But I think for now, I actually think there is something cathartic and healthy restorative, about saying, we just signed this document, it is going to govern our working relationship for the next 5 years, right? 5? 6?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. 5.

BOBBY:  5 years. years are made up. 5 years from now what are we going to be do? 5 years from now, come on. It’s going to govern our working relationship for the next 5 years. And we don’t have to think about that. Like, we don’t have to worry about that for at least another 3. Now, we should be organizing in the meantime. But we don’t need to worry about how we change this document for at least another three years. Like I’ll say for myself, like the the things that were in the document that we signed, that were going to have an immediate impact. I was like, that’s great. I want to talk about those things right now. But everything else that we need to see how it plays out over the next couple years, I’m actually relieved that we don’t have to talk about that stuff anymore. Because the whole reason that you organize and you form a union is so that you can get it in writing. And so that you can actually go on living your life as a worker, or in this case, as a player. And no longer, you don’t have to worry about that stuff anymore. So I like to a Max said, and we’ll talk about it more when we get the full document, of course. But I think–

ALEX:  We we won’t, I think that’s what you’re saying, right? Isn’t it, we don’t have to think about it for 3 years.

BOBBY:  We will talk about it when we get the full document because there will be more stuff that we didn’t have the details for in our emergency reaction pod. But I actually think from like a programming perspective, this podcast will become much less about the clauses of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And much more about the health of the sport, as it pertains to its trends in socie- in the larger society. You know what I mean?

ALEX:  Yeah, certainly, the labor battles of the sport, neither began nor end with the CBA. But there’s a lot that that doesn’t touch, or that we can’t necessarily glean from reading the fine print about the pre-arb players, or about the size of the bases. Like, like not to be like it’s just kind of a feel thing, bro. But–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –it’s just kind of a feel thing, you know.

BOBBY:  Organizing happens well outside of the CBA.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  All that being said, let’s talk about how evil owners are.

ALEX:  Oh, yeah. Bread and butter.

BOBBY:  The streaming deals.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Which had been reported before the CBA was signed. We knew about this on Thursday. We just didn’t have time, space, energy, desire to talk about it on Thursday’s podcast. But I think it’s worth discussing because it is another in a long line line of examples. A laundry list of ways that the owners have found a way to monetize the sport without actually making it healthier. And the streaming deals that I’m referring to, of course, are the ones that came out with Apple TV+, and NBC Sports. What’s their official streamer name now?

ALEX:  Peacock.

BOBBY:  Peacock?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Which were broken during an Apple product announcement, which is it’s really funny. It’s very Major League Baseball. You can’t make this stuff up. I think some people look at moves like this. And they say look at MLB making smart business decisions. This is what the league is supposed to do. They are supposed to monetize their products. And probably guys like you and I look at this, and we say, why are they putting more of their product behind a paywall? And why are they making it harder for people who subscribe to MLB TV to watch their product? And why are they not thinking about the long term health of the sport? Is this more like, like are, am I going too far by saying all of that stuff? Or is this just another one of those examples of, like, are these two games really going to matter to people? Or is it actually worth it to get this streaming money in the short term?

ALEX:  I don’t think it’s going too far to to say that, but I do think it’s, it’s kind of an inte- it comes at an interesting crossroads for MLB, right? As it and I guess, not just MLB. But for sports in general, right, as they feel like the last piece of television entertainment, that have yet to really figure out what their future looks like, right? TV and cable TV, and movies have successfully one might say made the shift to streaming, right? I’ve–

BOBBY:  Successfully based on–

ALEX:  On on who, right? Yes.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But like it’s here to re stay and for the most part, streaming companies have been able to make that pivot, right? And sports, live sports are really the the kind of last bastion to figure out what that future looks like for them, right? And it obviously has led to the rise of these regional sports networks over the last few years, which has seen varied results, I suppose you could say. And I think that–

BOBBY:  Wow! Was about to do five on Valley Sports as a failure.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Their bankrupcy.

ALEX:  Let’s do it. Uhm, Major League Baseball, and other sports leagues, I think we’re kind of reckoning with what that future looks like. Which I think is probably not in these are essence. These deals with Apple TV, sorry, Apple TV+.

BOBBY:  Yeah, like I said, give them their +, they are into that.

ALEX:  And NBC Sports–

BOBBY:  They’re a trillion dollar company, Alex, show them some respect.

ALEX:  I know, right? That’s like calling “the MLB”. They’re worth about–

BOBBY:  The Ohio State.

ALEX:  They’re worth about $115 million annually combined.

BOBBY:  So that’s like [37:38]–

ALEX:  That’s like roughly 4–

BOBBY:  Two games a week.

ALEX:  –4 million, a little under 4 million a year–

BOBBY:  Per team.

ALEX:  –per team.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Teams are raking in, you know, around $60 million a year on national TV deals alone.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And while I think that it’s probably not a good thing for MLB to paywall more of its product, I think this is we’re gonna see some growing pains with how access to the sport is created or or not traded over the next few years, right? Because–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –this, this jump is going to happen eventually. And it means it’s going to lock people out of the sport who aren’t already paying for a product. And is also inevitable, so I’m somewhat interested to see what this ends up looking like on an actual like we tweak level. Like you were saying, are we going to miss these two games? Is it going to be any different from the game being broadcast on ESPN on Sunday? Which you may not have access to unless you’re paying for a cable subscription, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  So like, and the production rights are, I assume going to go to Apple or go to NBC. So are they going to bring in new crews?

BOBBY:  Well actually, they’ll be produced by Major League Baseball. So it’ll be like the MLB Network producing the games and like outsourcing them to Apple TV+, which is what I read.

ALEX:  Love that.

BOBBY:  So, I know, I love those guys. They, love what they do. Great work. Big fan. I think you’re right. Like I don’t know how much outrage we can really sustain. Because like if we’re mad about two games going to Apple TV+ on a Friday night, which you’re right, like we we should be mad about that. We we should be mad about the game being unavailable, especially the thing that I think is the easiest thing to be mad about is if you have Major League Baseball, television, MLB TV.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That you pay 130 bucks a year for,t hat’s fucked up that you can’t watch these games that you can’t watch your team. It’s already messed up that you can’t watch your team if you live in that mark out market because of blackout restrictions.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And now you’re saying even if you don’t live in that market, it’s They’re going to be blacked out because it’s going to be on Apple TV+, I think that’s ridiculous. I think it’s craving. And I think it’s a cash grab. But you’re right, this is where it’s going. And I think like, streaming, TV streaming movies have been, ultimately more expensive for people. Like, we’re definitely paying more for streaming than we ever were, when you and I had cable when we lived together so that we could watch SNY and not have to deal with finding a stream or whatever. Like putting a VPN on our MLB TV on our PlayStation so that we could watch MLB TV, right? But we’re definitely paying more now. But we’re also getting more. Like, let’s be honest, we have way more options. When it comes to TV and movies. We have way more services that have catalogs that we can log on to and watch whatever we want. So ultimately, if MLB continues to go down this road, for streaming, accessibility for people who want to go get it, who want to pay for it, you are going to have way more access than you ever had, when you needed linear television, on in your home, or on in your bar, or on in your restaurant, or wherever else you were planning on watching the game. That is true. I think where it’s fair to criticize MLB and ask whether they’re considering this is are you properly balancing how many diehard people are going to pay all your streaming fees, to watch your games religiously? To keep funding your habit of hoarding all of the revenue of baseball? Are you balancing those people with the people who are casual fans, but could become ravenous. Because those people still need to be able to find the game. And if eventually it’s never on linear television, it’s never on cable, it’s not on YouTube for free. It’s not on Twitter, it’s not streaming on Twitch. It’s not in any of these places that people already are. You’re just going to continue to shrink the sport for the sake of your short term profits. And it’s obviously they’ve given us so much reason to believe that that’s all they care about. That we don’t have all that information right now. But we can presume that that is their plan. And I think that that’s why you can be mad about this. But also, it it’s like a fool’s errand to think that it’s just gonna be on cable all of the time for all of eternity, if that’s not how it’s gonna work. Nor nor should it maybe, because right now, baseball exists to make owners and RSN Executives rich. Which like, I don’t want to make either of those parties rich. And I don’t want to make Tim Cook rich either. But at least Tim Cook, you know, like, at least with streaming services, like, in theory, younger people could be accessing your product from that, you know, it’s not actually it’s no longer pay walled behind a cable subscription. It’s at least paywall behind something that I could go on http://www.appletvplus.com and get or whatever the fuck–

ALEX:  Right, it might be something you’re already paying for. Or this might be the the, the kind of final push that you need to pay for it. Which again, is not to say that I think that Apple TV+ is the the–

BOBBY:  Too much Apple TV+ talk.

ALEX:  Is like, you know, the Holy Grail of live streaming.

BOBBY:  I think that they should have just like if I had my druthers, I feel like I I’m maybe slightly defending this decision too much. I still hate it. Like, let’s be honest, I still hate it. I still entered it by saying it’s MLB owners being greedy again. But if I had my druthers, it would just be on YouTube. Like you remember how much we clown the YouTube game of the day or the game of the week or whatever the hell it was called.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Kind of a good idea. You know who’s on YouTube? People under the age of 30.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You know, who watches stuff for long periods of time on YouTube? People under the age of 30.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And I don’t understand when I saw this Apple TV+, when I saw this Peacock streaming deal. I don’t know the person, the consumer who is supported by that decision. I certainly know that the owners are supported by it. I saw that they’re getting $150 million per year. But what fan is like now it’s better for me? The person who wants to watch Ted Lasso? The person who wants to watch that terrible news drama with Jennifer Aniston and Steve Carell that I can’t think of the name right now.

ALEX:  Shade of The Morning Show.

BOBBY:  The Morning Show? What Morning Show hi- what member of The Morning Show hive is like it’s time to watch A’s-Mariners at 10:15pm.

ALEX:  Damn! All right!

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  Answer the question. Who wants to watch that? Who’s already watching Apple TV+? Nobody, but nobody is going to go get Apple TV+, for this purpose.

ALEX:  I think the interesting twist here is what pressure this puts on RSN? Especially when it comes to changing the blackout restrictions that exist currently. Because RSNs have a real monopoly over the distribution of baseball games, obviously. And they’re at a point where they are going to have to adjust their business model or risk losing it to these kind of, quote unquote, “new age streaming services.”

BOBBY:  What boggles my mind is that we don’t have a streaming service, where you can watch every single Major League Baseball game. Even if you’re paying more to add your own market in, for example, YES Network has an app, but you have to also have cable to use it. And like, what person who’s getting MLB TV, nowadays, through their laptop, or through their PlayStation 5 or whatever. Through–

ALEX:  PlayStation 5, how rich do you think our listeners are? [46:12]

BOBBY:  But, you and I are rockin with PS4s. It’s somebody when you tweeted out the Phoebe Bridgers middle reliever which I have so many questions about by the way.

ALEX:  This is the first time I’ve ever gonna say, speak to my manager, bro. I I don’t make the rules.

BOBBY:  So true. Yeah, you you, they wouldn’t put you in the closer role. I just didn’t trust you yet. When you tweeted out that screenshot somebody said MLB The Show 19. I’m like What do you think this is? You think we’re fucking gamers here? Like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –we’re just doing it to shut our brains off guys.

ALEX:  So the same same sport year in year out?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I want to tell you.

BOBBY:  Exactly. America’s pastime, for bases? Exactly the same.

ALEX:  I need–

BOBBY:  60 feet six inches,? Like what are we talking about here? Doing it while I’m listening to pods. I’m just not sure if MLB is fully ready to commit to breaking those ties breaking that monopoly up for–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –the sake of the consumer. And maybe this is where we should bring in the heavies from your fans from your your MLB fans union. We should started–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –pushing cars and rivers and throwing Molotov cocktails through windows.

ALEX:  It’s direct action.

BOBBY:  It literally is.

ALEX:  I need more access to my sport.

BOBBY:  Okay, uhm, anything else on the streaming deals? Do you have Apple TV+? Would you like to drop your username and password on the podcast so that the Tipping Pitches, this is direct action.

ALEX:  This is direct–

BOBBY:  So this is stealing money from corporation, you sharing your password on the podcast.

ALEX:  Well, I I suppose I will reveal my level of generational wealth. In saying that I’m actually on a family play.

BOBBY:  Alex is a Vanderbilt.

ALEX:  I do not pay for my own Apple TV+.

BOBBY:  Alex’s cousin is Anderson Cooper. It goes Hal Steinbrenner inheriting the Yankees. And then Alex getting a family plan of Apple TV+.

ALEX:  [48:06] I don’t have to tell you. The last thing I will say on this is that this deal may be bad for you the fan. It might be bad for cable Executives. And frankly, maybe bad for MLB itself. But anything that takes away MLBs ability to stream its own games with its terrible platform. Frankly, is a win for me in the long term.

BOBBY:  Wow. You know, it just occurred to me?

ALEX:  Uhm.

BOBBY:  MLB TV, haven’t been thinking about that much for the last 105 days.

ALEX:  You re upped your subscription? You encouraged many of our fans to to cancel it.

BOBBY:  That was direct action, MLB fans Union could never. Actually, you know what? If MLB fans union wants to take credit for ending the lockout? Actually, no, I did it. I did it by tweeting out that people should cancel their MLB TV subscription.

ALEX:  You, famously the only person to do that.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I definitely didn’t do that. Because Craig Calcaterra reminded me to do that and his wonderful Cup of Coffee newsletter, that definitely wasn’t the reason. Let’s take a quick break. And when we come back, we’re gonna answer a bunch of listener questions.

[49:17]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  All right. I want to say a big thank you to everybody who sent in listener questions because we’ve got a lot of them. So thanks to everybody. We won’t have time to get to every single one that we got. But we will be trickling them out over the next couple podcasts. But more than that, I want to say thank you to everybody who listened during the course of the lockout. And all the support that we heard from people for the emergency pod, for the CBA ABC’s. For just all of the “coverage” quote unquote, it’s weird to think of us as doing coverage. But I guess that kind of is what we do from a very specific perspective of the lockout and the labor situation over the last few months. It’s really, it’s been overwhelming, it’s been motivating to continue to try to put a good pot out into the world. So a big thank you to all of the TP listeners out there. Alex, do you want to say anything nice, or do you just want to sit there staring at me while I?

ALEX:  I, no, I’ll play the bad cop. Frankly, y’all, it’s been a bit much!

BOBBY:  Uhm, it’s your fault. You–

ALEX:  Wow! [50:38]–

BOBBY:  You hate MLB so much.

ALEX:  –I don’t want you.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you hate MLB so much they just didn’t care about bringing the sport back. Alex has been completely co opted by the MLB Fans Union?

ALEX:  Should we, should we answer some of those questions?

BOBBY:  Let’s let’s please answer some of those questions. We’re gonna start with a couple voicemails.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hey, guys, Nick here. I am curious to hear your thoughts on this. When once the deal was done, and it was signed, and baseball was officially back, I saw a lot of folks on Twitter sharing their excitement that baseball is back and they were you know, open to players it’s time to do and I, I didn’t, I was excited that baseball is back. But I was also trying to balance the emotions, of knowing that the deal of the players time wasn’t what they originally set out to achieve. And I know that there are some wins in there. And you’ll have discussed that already. But the owners did, unfortunately, a successful job of changing the narrative, to get a lot of fans to kind of change their view of the Players Association and what they were advocating for and trying to get the union to sign a deal quicker to save the season with all their state deadlines, everything they were doing. And so I’m curious how you all are balancing the feeling of being excited that baseball is back. But also the feeling of knowing that this deal is a player’s time isn’t the best deal that they could have gotten. Because the Executive Committee said no way, I think and so we know that there are still some things that the Executive Committee felt weren’t a part of it. For for that they didn’t want, so I’m curious to hear your thoughts and opinions on this. Thanks.

ALEX:  I think that we kind of were I tried my my best to convey my feelings on this in our, in our emergency reaction podcast, even though I don’t really remember what I said.

BOBBY:  Come on, bro, you don’t go back and listen to the pod?

ALEX:  I’m not, I’m not one of our listeners. Uhm–

BOBBY:  That’s all right. Your mom listens, I think your dad listens from time to time.

ALEX:  Right. And people will, will reply back and I respond. I mostly use context clues to figure out what it is that we talked about.

BOBBY:  To remember what you said on your own podcasts?

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, that’s like, this is one of the hard things about negotiating and about bargaining, right? Is, is recognizing that you probably didn’t achieve all of the things that you initially set out to do. And there obviously were specific places where it was unfortunate that the PA felt okay to give a little bit in some areas. In order to get the owners to give a bit in others. It’s unfortunate, and also kind of expected. Like, I think this is probably how I would have expected the deal to end up.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Is–

BOBBY:  Maybe not exactly on this path. But–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –we got to the place.

ALEX:  We got to the place. And I don’t think, you know, anyone was really expecting the the Players Association to completely roll back a lot of the economic changes that were made in the CBA over the last couple rounds of negotiating. 

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like that was just, frankly, the owners got their hooks in to a certain slice of the pie. And they weren’t really going to let that go. And some of the provisions that they ultimately settled on maybe didn’t go far enough to address things like competitive balance to address things like [54:35]. I think the PA probably did what they could.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Given what they were working with. And given the fact that I think a lot of their players, a lot of their members really wanted to get back and and play. Like I think there was probably a a large constituency that said, Hey, maybe I don’t want to blow this whole thing up right now. Maybe this isn’t the time things aren’t that dire. Which like I, you know, we’re not in the room, I get, I get that.

BOBBY:  And I don’t even think you have to do too much reading into it to see that. The Executive Subcommittee, as Nick outlined, voted 8-0 against this deal. And as we talked about, on Thursday’s pod, the 30, representatives from the teams voted 26 to 4 in favor of this deal. And so I think it’s pretty obvious to see that the will of the unit, as we say, in bargaining, the will of the unit was they wanted to get back on the field and play. And there’s only so much you can do when you’re the person in the room when your union thinks it’s a good deal, like that, that it’s a good deal. Or it’s the deal that you’re going to get this time around. It would be irresponsible to then turn on your own union members who are voting yes for this. Because they have their own considerations as to why they wanted to vote yes, for this and get back to work. And many of those considerations we discussed on Thursday. Like they raised the minimum salary, the younger players are getting compensated much better than they were in the previous deal. And so, I don’t know, how do you square this? You just go back to watching baseball, I guess. And you hope that the next time around, they can get behind a couple more proposals that they feel really strongly about the way that they got behind the pre-arbitration bonus pool proposal. And that they can continue to make improvements to the game and make it more sustainable. But but at the end of the day, like you you can’t really live in the frustration that it should have gone farther. Because, because as you said, like, bargaining is not a one stop shop. One round of bargaining is not a one stop shop for fixing every single problem. Like it’s the, it truly is the cliche, where they say like, a compromise is where, what both sides go home feeling unhappy. And that’s how you know it’s the right deal to sign. Unfortunately, it’s my opinion that the owners are not unhappy about this deal. But I don’t know, man, I don’t know. It’s not my right to say it’s not I’m not in the room.

ALEX:  All I can say is we the National Fans Union will push harder in the next round of bargaining.

BOBBY:  And this was fans fault, as we learned at the beginning this podcast.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  So fans–

ALEX:  So we really should be, rather than rather than listening–

BOBBY:  This was your fault.

ALEX:  –rather than looking outward. How about look inward, right? What could I have done?

BOBBY:  Ask not what MLB can do for you. But what you can do for MLB. Next question.

VOICEMAIL 2:  Hey, guys, this is Dave. Love the pod, obsesses with the pod. Telling all my friends about the pod. Had a question about the pre-arb bonus pool. Seems like a really huge and important and impactful get for the players union. But I also, the more I hear about it, and get the fine grained details kind of underwhelmed at the same time. I know it’s important to make steps toward but this one, having trouble pinning down how important it is. Hoping you guys can help. I’m thinking specifically about an example, a couple of examples that I heard from Mark Feinsand on another podcast that I’m less of less obsessed with, where he said, If the bonus pool was in place as constituted in the new CBA last season, Corbin Burnes, for winning the Cy Young would have gotten four and a half million are in that ballpark. Vladi Jr. instead of you know, 660k, he would have gotten, three and a half million again, somewhere in that range. Great for those extremely, you know, high performing players. But yeah, there’s a bunch of other pre-arb guys who aren’t, you know, second AL MVP voting or or first in Cy Young voting that probably deserve a raise too. How does it impact the guys who aren’t Vladi Jr. and Corbin Burnes. All right, looking forward to hearing what you guys have to say. Thanks.

BOBBY:  I think an important thing to understand about the Major League Baseball Players Association, and the economic structure of Major League Baseball is that it rewards outliers. And as much as we can sit here and say that we wish socialism came to baseball and greater society that I don’t think either side is interested in that. Like, yeah, Vladi Jr. is going to get taken care of. But the nature of the players union has always been do not cap what an individual person can make. That’s why there’s no salary cap. That’s why they will never agree to a salary cap and they think that that benefits the larger group of players in a long run. Because that was a decision that they made, along with Marvin Miller and the other founding members of the Players Association. And so we can look at it from the outside and we can say, maybe it would be better if that pool was spread out more evenly. But I don’t know that that’s what they wanted. And if that’s not that, that’s not what they wanted, then that’s not what’s gonna happen. And I I actually think that’s reasonable. Like, I think Dave, is probably right, we should have a baseball economic structure where there is not as much stratification. But I believe that, because I believe that about the entire world. And as we talked about a couple podcasts ago, not really sure if individual members of the Major League Baseball Players Association, really believe that, I think that they would probably tell you, they should be compensated for their individual ability, and that they kind of bootstrap their way to that place. Some of them don’t think that, for sure. But I think at least a simple majority of them think that most likely.

ALEX:  Right. And even if all of them believed that, I don’t think you would have very much success approaching the owners and saying we believe every player should be paid X amount, regardless of their ability. We want to bump every player’s pay $3 million, no matter who they are, right? The owners are not going to get on board with that, which doesn’t mean that’s like something you shouldn’t necessarily fight for. But I think they probably recognized that the easiest case to make was one that said, you should at least start paying your stars, regardless of where they are kind of in service time in their major league career. You should start paying them a little bit closer to the output that they are creating for you. Which again, is not something maybe that you or I or Dave, or any other baseball fan maybe agrees with. It’s probably one of the many fans also do agree with.

BOBBY:  Yeah. And it’s bad, it’s bad. But guess what? It is the argument that carries the most weight under capitalism. It carries weight on both sides of the table, to be honest. Are you valuable? What is valuable mean? Should you be financially compensated for being valuable?

ALEX:  Yeah. What have you, what have you brought to the table?

BOBBY:  Exactly.

ALEX:  What value have you brought?

BOBBY:  And it’s honestly the argument that gets the furthest at the table. as messed up as that is. It’s the argument that doesn’t work at the table is these are all human beings. They should all be making an equal share of the pie.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Because if that was the argument, that worked well at the table, we wouldn’t need the table, bro. All right, this next question comes in the form of a DM it comes from Ron. Ron says, “As an Orioles fan, I may be biased. But I feel that teams that cut payroll but seem to have a plan to actually compete in the near future. Like the Orioles, the Astros, the Cubs, get misplaced criticism when criticizing teams who are quote ‘cheap’. Don’t you think teams like the Rockies and Pirates who literally seem to float and do nothing while collecting Competitive Balance Tax money are worse than teams who cut unusable contracts while revamping the minor league pipeline with future stars and then spend when those players are ready.” I think this is a fair question.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Because obviously, when we talk about these things, when we talk about trends, when we talk about tanking, we flatten these conversations, and we direct our ire towards a lot of the same offenders. I think the problem with the Orioles to address Ron’s example is when does that end? Like how long do you really need to tear down to get the minor league players?

ALEX:  Right. Bold to say the Orioles, the Astros and the Cubs.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  [1:03:54] saying.

BOBBY:  Like the Astros and the Cubs. I’ll give them credit for a very finite period. Guess what, the Astros were in the World Series last year, Alex. Do you remember that? Do you remember when the Astros were in the World Series last year?

ALEX:  Do you remember when they won the World Series?

BOBBY:  A couple of years ago? Yes, I remember. And same with the Cubs. The problem is there’s no defensible argument where it needs to be this bad. Do you need to run a $40 million payroll? Do you need to put a product out, that is offensive to a an insignificant, a not insignificant portion of your fans? No, you don’t. You don’t need to do that to turn it around. And just look at any number of teams who have become competitive without doing full tear downs like that. Look at the Brewers. Did the Brewers ever completely tank for 5 years and say this is the only way for us to get good players? No. They hired people who could go out and do the advanced scouting and understand that trading for Christian Yelich was a good idea. You know what I mean? And especially in the current market of baseball teams, it doesn’t take that much effort to get good again. And so I think there’s no world in which this isn’t primarily a financial, financially incentivized thing that the Orioles are doing. I think that you could probably say, it’s definitely better than what the Rockies and Pirates are doing. But is that really the position you want to put yourself in? Where you’re saying at least we’re better than the Rockies and the Pirates like no, that’s not, that’s not treating yourself well enough as a fan of the team.

ALEX:  Yeah, I I think it’s fair to say that teams go through cycles of building and tearing down and, and being competitive and not being competitive. Like that’s true across all sports. So sure, there are levels to it. But I think it’s all undergirded with the realization that you will profit from this, no matter what. And in many cases that is extended, as far as it can possibly go, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  So do–

BOBBY:  For people literally call for you to get moved out of [1:06:24].

ALEX:  Right, So, so is it reasonable to say the Orioles are in more of a rebuilding phase than in a all in phase? Sure. Do they really have to be hitting like the the rockiest of bottoms that we’ve seen in the last few years?

BOBBY:  No pun intended.

ALEX:  I, I don’t know.

BOBBY:  It’s just, you’re right. You’re right to say they’re going to be financially rewarded either way. Because it is profitable, even now, when they’re not winning. But if it wasn’t profitable now, way fewer teams would be trying it.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  That’s absolutely certain–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –because you would have to know that it was gonna work. And guess what? I don’t see the Phillies competing for the World Series. They tore it down. I don’t see the Marlins competing for a World Series, when they tore it down and traded Yellich, Ozuna, and Stanton. I just, it doesn’t always work. It doesn’t even work most of the time. And so guess what? I’d rather see a team that wins 75 games and is at least pretty entertaining. Than a team that wins under 60 games, and is truly embarrassing for 5 years.

ALEX:  Him. All right. Want come to be an A’s fan? Shits great over here, bro.

BOBBY:  But, but look, listen though, the A’s have made the Playoffs so many times in your lifetime. Like 10 times more times than the Mets have made it. And I’m not even trying to be like–

ALEX:  Same things to show for it though.

BOBBY:  Yes, but but look, I’m not even trying to say like, look at me–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –poor Mets fan.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Because I think that the Mets fans are, I think Mets fans are like, truly unwell and how they talk about the success or failure of the team. But like, at least they were decent enough to have enough good baseball players for you to be sad when they traded them away. Like who is what Orioles fan other than Jake Mintz from Cespedes Family BBQ is hurting right now. Because Hanser Alberto signed somewhere else. Absolutely nobody.

ALEX:  Good signing, by the way.

BOBBY:  Yeah, it was a good signing. But you you you understand my point?

ALEX:  Yes, I do. I think the the problem is that the profit motives have become so muddied with the idea of competitiveness that you genuinely cannot tell the difference. And that is the real problem. Not necessarily the Rockies in a vacuum, or the Pirates in a vacuum. Or–

BOBBY:  Though, although they are large problems.

ALEX:  They are massive problems, but they’re a product of a system that is rewarding this, right? So are the Orioles worth or the Rockies worse? It doesn’t really matter. They’re both successful. They’re both in the black at the end of the day.

BOBBY:  Yeah. All right. Next question. This comes from John, we’ll do this one very quickly. Because we already kind of answered it. John wants to know, is noted how the Subcommittee went 8-0 against the Collective Bargaining Agreement and the team reps went 26-4 in favor of it. I didn’t hear these kind of detailed numbers, when the many many declined deals were announced. Where the 30 team reps always giving their yey or nay on these proposals. Or did they bring them in this time? Or did they bring them in this time because the Subcommittee felt this deal was more serious? So I’ll say the only time it goes to a wide vote is when you’ve completed the agreement. So what I mean by that is when one side gives a proposal, and the other side whoever is directly involved in bargaining. So in this case, it probably was the Executive Subcommittee. It probably was only those 8 people. And if they felt like a deal was close enough That’s when they would start consulting the other 30 team reps. But you wouldn’t go back to your constituency and say, do you support this deal? If it was an ownership proposal that was still very far away from what you had proposed? So my guess would be, they did not start involving those individual 30 team reps until last week.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, do you think that was the case entirely? Like, it wouldn’t surprise me if some of those players were going back and having informal conversations.

BOBBY:  Right, and–

ALEX:  They say–

BOBBY:  –involved is [1:10:34]–

ALEX:  –the wrong [1:10:34] is.

BOBBY:  They wouldn’t have formally went to a vote process and–

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  [1:10:38]

ALEX:  You’re not gonna vote on every single proposal.

BOBBY:  Because nobody thought it was even close. Nobody thought it was anywhere nearer. Like the for a long time, the Players Association was still at 275 million. And when you put a proposal across the table, what you are saying, what you are promising is that that proposal is at the behest of the rest of your union. And so if, because they’ve elected you, they’ve put their trust in you to bargain their contract on behalf of them. Because not all 1000 players can be in the room. And so if the Executive Subcommittee along with Bruce Meyer thinks that 275 million for the Competitive Balance Tax is the number to put across, by electing the Executive Subcommittee, the rest of the union is saying, we agree 275 million is the number that we should put across. And that’s just the way these things work. Because not all 1000 people can be in the room. So the answer to John’s question is, it was never close enough to involve all 30 people. There is kind of like a logical end point when you’re in the room for these things. Where each side kind of thinks this is a deal proposal. This is not just me answering your proposals on these individual things, and saying we need to hammer this out. Like this is a full package proposal, take this or leave this. And we saw this language for Major League Baseball. And that’s how it gets once you get close enough on the main key economic issues. The next question, it’s not really a question. It’s more of a follow up from Kenny that I wanted to very quickly address. Because I think that I was slightly mistaken in talking about game length a couple weeks ago, when we had this discussion. And I phrased it as commercials are the primary reason why games have gotten so long commercial length. And Kenny was right to point out an article from Grant Brisbee in 2017, which we actually talked about, at the time that the article was released. Kenny was right to point that out that, that if you were to institute some of these rule changes are about a pitch clock, you could actually save as much as, as much as 30 minutes in a game. Which, obviously, you couldn’t really save that much time from trimming down commercial breaks. Because most of the commercial breaks that happened in Major League Baseball or wall sides are switching. And you actually need enough time to get out there and for the pitcher to warm up. So Kenny was right to point that out. I still think my I still think our conversation about the pitch clock kind of stands in that it will all depend on how they actually enforce it. And whether or not it goes to the letter of the law in terms of the game sound or not. And Kenny was right to point out. He’s, he’s been at games that were two and a half hours that felt like four hours because there was no action. And he’s been at games that were four hours. That felt like two and a half hours. And so I think that that is a big problem of this. But I think a lot of people believe including Austin Zimmerman, who’s a friend of the podcast. Who’s been on the podcast, I think a lot of people believe that a pitch clock could help with that problem. So even if the game does go long, even if there are a lot of long at bats, and hits and walks and whatever, if at least you’re seeing a pitch at a quicker cadence, it doesn’t quite feel like attracts as much. I’m kind of unconvinced if we don’t fix the problem with how we’ve incentivize certain types of playing the game. But I figured it was worth at least kind of reconciling that I was slightly unfactual in that claim.

ALEX:  The most modest admission of fault. No, you’re right on that.

BOBBY:  This next question comes from Cam. I’m gonna let you take it Alex. Cam asks, “So Bob Castellini owns 20%, which is a plurality of the Cincinnati Reds. And the rest is split between 17 other people with the Pitman family collectively owning more than Bob. Should I be yelling at Bob? The Pitmans? All 19 of them? Should I be begging on Twitter.com random crypto billionaires to buy the Reds? Or are we just doomed?” I love this question.

ALEX:  I think you direct your ire at all of them, but mostly Bob Castellini because he’s the funny one to direct your ire towards. I don’t know, why have you gotten so much?

BOBBY:  I know Bob–

ALEX:  So much mileage out of him owning a fruits and vegetables for sale

BOBBY:  God chase [1:15:12], time to buy some more carrots.

ALEX:  You do really like that bit. Uhm–

BOBBY:  It’s so funny. How do you become worth $400 million by selling carrots? Like it’s such an indictment of society that Bob Castellini became rich enough to buy a Major League Baseball team by selling fruits and vegetables. That’s why we’ve gotten so much mileage out of it.

ALEX:  Yeah, frankly. I, you know, again, I, I hate them all. I actually know very little about the Pitman family. Which is why I say directed at Bob Castellini. But hey, man, the Pitmans sound like they probably deserve it too. I, do you know, do any? Do you know anything about the Pitman family?

BOBBY:  I don’t know who they are at all? Nope. Can’t name a single one of them.

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  The Pitman families, the friends [1:16:02]. I I mean, anybody who is part of the ownership, this is, I actually think this is a perfect example of why ownership groups like large ownership groups are probably not in the best interest of Major League Baseball teams in the long run. Where one person owns 20%, just a small parality of the team. And a bunch of other people have shared interests. Because they’re looking around the room at their fellow rich people, investors, and they’re looking at the big market owners. And they’re saying, they’re seeing, or or even they’re looking at like the Paul Dolan types, small market owners who [1:16:45] huge returns on their small market teams. No, like, why aren’t I getting that much money? It’s like, well, because you don’t own as much of the team, dude. Like you don’t get as big of a percentage of the dividend at the end of the year. But they think they’re entitled to it. Because they’ve been told by everybody else, that baseball should make them a lot of money. And so they push for cost saving mechanisms, so that they can make as much as their friends in baseball. I think that that is my take on this. So you should be mad at all of them is the long winded. My long winded way of saying that.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, the fact that a lot of ownership groups are obscured from actually knowing how they operate or who they are composed of, is a problem probably in and of itself. Like you should be able to go to mlb.com and have a little, little owner’s link that says, here’s who owns your team and their–

BOBBY:  Phone number.

ALEX:  –residences.

BOBBY:  Residences.

ALEX:  Plural, probably.

BOBBY:  Yeah, probably. Uhm, all right, we have a couple more questions. So let’s go back to the voicemail box.

VOICEMAIL 3:  Hey, fellas, Josh here. Two questions. What is the best Taylor Swift album? Why is it Folklore? And if there’s one Taylor Swift song to perfectly describe our good friend, Rob, Manfred’s tenure as Commissioner, what would it be? Thanks. Can’t wait for the next episode.

BOBBY:  Please allow me to put my Captain Obvious hat on Alex. And give the people what they want and say the best Taylor Swift album is Red. And the Taylor Swift song that best describes Rob Mafred’s tenure, which I cannot take personal credit for. I must give credit to Phoebe, my partner, is This Is Why We Can’t Have Nice Things. It’s right there, all new title.

ALEX:  Josh, I want to turn the tables on you. You offered up an answer to your first question but not your second. I’d love to know what you think the the best song is to describe the tenure of Rob Manfred as Commissioner of baseball.

BOBBY:  Well, do you want to engage with the Folklore of it? Do you want to engage with the fact that with the Josh thinks that Folklore is Taylor Swift best album?

ALEX:  Uhm. No, ‘coz it’s probably true if we’re being honest.

BOBBY:  Oh, from like a musicality perspective?

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  All right.

ALEX:  What is, like what’s my–

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  –favorite?

BOBBY:  where can I read your work on pitchforks?

ALEX:  Wow!

BOBBY:  Show some emotion, dawg.

ALEX:  Uhm, my favorite is Reputation.

BOBBY:  I love this about you.

ALEX:  I’m so not kidding.

BOBBY:  I know you’re not, that’s why I love it about you.

ALEX:  It’s it’s a, it is arguably–

BOBBY:  It’s one of the bo- it’s one of the bolder albums made in our lifetime.

ALEX:  It’s five–

BOBBY:  Tie up a mainstream pop artists.

ALEX:  It is maybe the most important album for her creatively when you look at where she was in her career. What she was writing about and just in terms of, you know, it’s kind of the sort of thing where you have to blow it all up to be able to like build it, you know, like she had to go to-

BOBBY:  So you’re in favor of tanking? This was like her tanking album.

ALEX:  This is her tanking album that she won the World Series, right? Like she did it all. And like what sure where–

BOBBY:  Wow!.

ALEX:  –there’s some where there’s some misses?

BOBBY:  Which song is Carlos Correa? I just love that you looked at Taylor Swift.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And you were like, you know what I need more Ed Sheeran.

ALEX:  Uhm, I mean, that album features the only good Ed Sheeran feature and even that is questionable. So–

BOBBY:  It’s not, I always, I can’t decide whether he works on that song or doesn’t work on that song. Or whether it would be improved or made worse by taking him off. Because just Taylor Swift in future on a song doesn’t seem right either.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He almost feels like the perfect midway point between those two artists to make it seem normal that they were in the studio together. Even though future definitely recorded that in a separate studio and just sent them that file.

ALEX:  I mean, that song slaps.

BOBBY:  It’s fun.

ALEX:  If it’s, it’s, it’s a good song. My–

BOBBY:  I think Folklore is a definitely defensible best Taylor Swift album.

ALEX:  It’s the one–

BOBBY:  But it depends on what you’re there for.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, it’s the one that I’ve come back to obviously, in the most in the last couple years, both because of recency bias. But also I think it’s just the most musically like, varied of hers, right? Like it doesn’t have a style where it’s like, this is the the pop Taylor. Or this is this is the country Taylor, right? I mean, you could say this is like, indie Taylor. But indie doesn’t mean a single fucking thing in 2022. So–

BOBBY:  I think that Red has gotten so much shine because of All Too Well and the 10-minute version. And–

ALEX:  Are we talking Red or Red Taylor’s version?

BOBBY:  I don’t think that it makes too much of a difference to [1:21:54]

ALEX:  Wow! It doesn’t make a difference.

BOBBY:  Well, I think that the Red bonus tracks have been the best of the bonus, the best collection of the bonus tracks.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Like I think, I bet you think about me is definitely the best song from the vault so far. Like that’s a song that I have–

ALEX:  Shade the Mr. Perfectly Fine.

BOBBY:  –I have, Mr. Perfectly Fine’s really good too, actually that that’s fair, that’s one A and one B. I have put that song on more playlists on any playlist, actually. I haven’t put any other songs from the vault on that playlist. So you know what I mean. So I guess from that perspective, Taylor’s version is important. But the thing about Red is that it’s the album that is most improved by listening to as an album. Folklore, individual tracks are all really good and the album is good. Individual tracks on Red, there’s more misses when you listen to them out of order.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But me being a listen straight through to the album, kind of person. I think our generation kind of the last generation that actually did that, because of CDs. I like Red. I think it’s the best album.

ALEX:  I love that. I love that for you. I respect that take.

BOBBY:  I don’t think that it would have the highest percentage of good Taylor Swift songs though.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Because there’s a looooot of stuff on there that I’m like, this probably didn’t need to be on that.

ALEX:  This is just the kind of thing where it’s like you need just needed an editor, you know? This, this essay didn’t need to be 10,000 words long. My my, the last–

BOBBY:  But some authors, you just need to let them have those 10,000 words to find themselves.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And I think that she’s one of those people.

ALEX:  Right. Some people. You mean like a reputation?

BOBBY:  Different strokes for different folks? Like, like Olivia Rodrigo’s album is 11 songs long. Can you imagine Taylor Swift putting out an 11 song record? Absolutely not!

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Unless all of the songs are like 15-minutes long.

ALEX:  I don’t want to get into my take. Olivia Rodrigo’s- rigo’s album, is too long. Uhm–

BOBBY:  What is happening right now?

ALEX:  I’m gonna, I’m gonna go, I I–

BOBBY:  It’s like 39 minutes.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We’ve been answering this question longer than Olivia Rodrigo’s album.

ALEX:  Yeah. I just–

BOBBY:  The gall, the gall from this man.

ALEX:  That, this wasn’t the question.

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  Somebody please call it and ask a question about that so that we can hear Alex’s full thoughts.

ALEX:  I knew you were trouble feels like the the the kind of easy answer to the question. And–

BOBBY:  That’s really good. That’s really good.

ALEX:  –and the deeper Cohen is my tears ricochet, you know? It’s like, dude, come on! What? I thought we were gonna have something here.

BOBBY:  Okay. Wow. Time for one last question.

VOICEMAIL 4:  Hello, this is Kara. First time long time. I wanted to ask you guys about the international draft. I know. That was one of the big issues that were kind of tabled in order for them to finally agree to see the CBA. I wanted to see what you guys thought the issues would be there. I know. July is their deadline to agree to something. How is that going to work in the middle of the season? What are the major talking points there? Yeah, I’m just curious and look forward to hearing your answer.

BOBBY:  I’ll say we also got this question from Joseph, specifically about the international draft. And what are the benefits and one of the problems with it? I mean, there are a million problems with the International draft. First and foremost, a draft is anti labor. It takes away your agency and choosing where you go. Which means it limits your ability to capitalize on your talent, if there is a team that wants you more, and is willing to pay more for you. I think that the reason some people are slightly optimistic about the concept of an international draft is because it would do some of the work of cleaning up the corruption with what goes on in international signings. As far as Kara’s question of the deadline of the middle of the season, I’m I’m pretty pessimistic about them being able to come to an agreement before then. Because there are so many different parties to take into consideration when it comes to the international draft. I just don’t know how you really balanced that in any kind of equitable way that the Players Association is willing to sign off on. Because we’ve already seen a lot of honestly like power broker type figures, as players come out against this. Tatis is against this. David Ortiz is against this. Like these people have already come out. And full throatedly said, this won’t work.

ALEX:  Although, although Ortiz said it with a bit of he hedged on it a bit and said, I don’t like it in the format right now. There’s a way to do it.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But it can’t have such a short runway, etc.

BOBBY:  Right. All that being said, we are going to go into further detail on this on a future episode. Because because it is still open for bargaining purposes. And because Alex and I are certainly not the experts when it comes to international signings.

ALEX:  Yeah. And ultimately, this is another case of the players bargaining away the rights of others who are not protected by their union, because they have the ability to do so.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Which like, psh!!! Fucking sucks!

BOBBY:  That actually, it’s a good opportunity for me to say we got a few different questions about how the CBA, how this recent lockout truly affects minor leaguers? The answer? It doesn’t. They’re still being treated like absolute shit. There’s nothing that the CBA does to help them in any way, shape, or form. And the Players Association did very little to support minor leaguers in this round of bargaining. Not to say that they should have not to say that it was easy to even do that. But I think I mentioned this on a previous podcast, but Alex and I are going to do it a whole episode about what it would take to unionize the minor league. So look out if you asked a question about that. I apologize. We’re clearly running very long here. But look out for more of that discussion. Again in the near future.

ALEX:  Yeah. What you said, should we get out of here?

BOBBY:  I think we should. Must you have more Major League Baseball fans union propaganda to read to the people at the end of the podcast?

ALEX:  No, man, so So here’s the thing about Olivia Rodrigo, you know? No, I kid.

BOBBY:  Two songs that you would cut from the album. Go!

ALEX:  I don’t know, bro.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s right.

ALEX:  Hope ur okay?

BOBBY:  All right.

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  Fair. That’s one.

ALEX:  Favorite crime? Like, I don’t know, I just I mostly just feel like, oh, they they kind of tread over a lot of the same themes, both like lyrically and musically. Which again–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –is I I would she is allowed to feel all the fields.

BOBBY:  So what I’m hearing from you is you want to invalidate a young woman’s feelings.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And how she puts them into her music? Right, of course.

ALEX:  Wow. I can’t even respond to this. You know, like there’s nothing I can say here. If, can you hear me the shovel over there in the corner?

BOBBY:  Just keep digging, brother, keep digging. Thanks to everybody for listening to this comically long podcast. If you want to call in ask more questions, which we will continue to answer over the coming weeks. The number is 785-422-5881. You can write us at tippingpitchespod@gmail.com. You can DM us tipping_pitches on Twitter. You know what else you can do, Alex? You can leave a review of us on iTunes.

ALEX:  Uhm.

BOBBY:  You can tell a friend about the podcast.

ALEX:  You two stars for the bad sour takes.

BOBBY:  Please, I’m willing to eat those two star reviews in support of sour. Which took 4 of the 5 most listened to spots on my Spotify wrapped in 2021. Anything else?

ALEX:  It was supposed to be an EP. It was only expanded because of good for you and the success for that. That’s all say.

BOBBY:  It was a lot of success. It was a lot of success. Thanks for listening everyone.

[1:29:58]

[Music]

[1:30:23]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMarch 14, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB CBA, MLB lockout, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on This Is All The Fans’ Fault	
Emergency New CBA Just Dropped Pod

Alex and Bobby get together hours after the news of a new CBA between MLB and the MLBPA to discuss the end of the lockout, their instant reactions to some of the key points in the agreement, what this means about player-owner relations moving forward, and more. Baseball’s back, baby!

Songs featured in this episode:

Taylor Swift — “‘tis the damn season” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”

Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, Alex, Alex, we did it. Collective Bargaining Agreement Poddddd!!! What’s up, dude?

ALEX:  Dude, we have to go back to like talking about actual baseball. There are–

BOBBY:  Not yet we don’t, not yet we don’t. We still have tonight, my friend.

ALEX:  That’s tomorrow.

BOBBY:  Tomorrow we might wake up and have to preview the National League Central. But tonight–

ALEX:  But today–

BOBBY:  –on this day, we have a collective bargaining–

ALEX:  –99 days–

BOBBY:  –agreement.

ALEX:  –later.

BOBBY:  We broken format for the intro because we’re breaking format in general, for this past year.

ALEX:  If baseball has broken it’s its own format.

BOBBY:  And us in the process.

ALEX:  Right. Yes.

BOBBY:  This is the first official Tipping Pitches Emergency Pod, now five hours after the emergency occurred. But guess what? We have jobs that have to pay.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Our bills and this podcast is not one of those things that’s paying our bills.

ALEX:  Years ago, I thought the the very first emergency pod we would do would be one Timothy Richard Tebow getting the call–

BOBBY:  You’re exactly right.

ALEX:  –to Queens, New York.

BOBBY:  Can you imagine a baseball game being exciting enough for us to record emergency pod for it now?

ALEX:  No, not anymore.

BOBBY:  No, we wait for historic labor agreements within the sport of Major League Baseball.

ALEX:  Yes, we power through even if we’re sick as a dog. I’m I’m coming down off the high of a labor agreement and coming on to the high of some drugs that will put me out for the next 12 hours. So you know–

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  –we’re kind of at a sweet spot right now. Like–

BOBBY:  I act [2:09]

ALEX:  –I’ve no idea what’s gonna happen in the next 45 minutes.

BOBBY:  Clock ticking before the NyQuil sets in for Alex.

ALEX:  Yeah, right. I think this is your cue to just kind of stall, right? And push this out as long as possible. [2:21]

BOBBY:  Don’t have to tell me twice my friend. We’re sitting here to record this at 8:45pm. Eastern Time. Listeners who listened to last week’s episode will know that we were back in person for that episode. As you just mentioned, you are sick. So we are back on Zoom back on Zoom for the collective–

ALEX:  Cannot believe this.

BOBBY:  –bargaining agreement is signed to pod. Even though I moved 3000 miles just for this podcast.

ALEX:  Just for this, yeah.

BOBBY:  We are going to talk about the highlights of the CBA where our emotions are at now that it is ratified and agreed to and the lockout is officially over. We are going to talk about how the news unfolded over the course of the day and the week. But before we do all of that. I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[3:06]

[Music Theme]

ALEX:  So Commissioner deals, got it done.

BOBBY:  He sure did. New York City

ALEX:  [3:21] shear force of will.

BOBBY:  2:30pm. Eastern Time, 30 minutes before their deadline of 3pm. Their 3rd deadline? 4th?

ALEX:  3rd–

BOBBY:  deadline?

ALEX:  –maybe 5th or 6th.

BOBBY:  They were all kind of invented at this point.

ALEX:  I would like to tell my my boss at my day job to start taking a cue from Rob Manfred when it comes to my own deadlines. Because sometimes you just need to, to work through it a little bit more, right? Sometimes you just need it, need to bump the numbers up a decimal point or tier.

BOBBY:  Yeah. But I think there comes a point, Alex, at which the risk/reward is just not high enough. And you just have to sign that deal. And that’s where the union was at this afternoon. Ah, man I don’t know where to start. Because, of course, we can go down the list of everything that is in this agreement. And we can talk about it in great detail as we have been all offseason. But I honestly think more constructively. I’d like to hear you describe what you were doing when you received that push alert from the recently hacked and since got his Twitter account back. Jeff Passan of ESPN.

ALEX:  I mean ironically, I didn’t see it right away because I was in a meeting so I saw all the–

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  –the tweet notifications forming–

BOBBY:  Corporate Alex doesn’t–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –care about baseball everybody.

ALEX:  I saw the the notifications coming in and I was like, okay, sure, right like I it’s just Jon Heyman going off again and being like, today might be the day, optimism rains. I’m like, all right, dude–

BOBBY:  Wow!

ALEX:  –we get it!

BOBBY:  Breaking news, Alex has tweet alerts set up for Jon Heyman.

ALEX:  You know, these, these have been dark times, these last three months. I feel like a changed man.

BOBBY:  You push this man to a brink and what did you expect?

ALEX:  I know you’re, you’re actually it’s a good reminder for me to turn them off right now.

BOBBY:  That’s a good question, actually. Who did you have before we get into the very, very, very important news that Tipping Pitches have been waiting three and a half years for. Whose Twitter notification did you have on for this whole process? I had Passan, Rosenthal, Evan Drellich. I think that’s it, those, those are my holy trinity right there.

ALEX:  Yeah. Those are those are the those are the good ones. Relatively speaking,

BOBBY:  Rosenthal, the father.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Drellich the son because of their relationship of The Athletic and yeah, Passan of course, the the Holy Spirit.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. I regrettably, as you mentioned, I had Jon Heyman on as well as–

BOBBY:  Don’t tell me–

ALEX:  –after–

BOBBY:  –you gonna say Bob Nightengale?

ALEX:  –after that–

BOBBY:  Don’t tell me, man.

ALEX:  –fateful night. Because–

BOBBY:  You know you.

ALEX:  –see, here’s the thing is, when it comes to news regarding ownership.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  He he’s kind of your guy, right?

BOBBY:  Right on the pulse. Yeah.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. I don’t remember who said this. And I think I saw it on Twitter. But like, there’s a reason why Nightengale gets so much of the player news wrong and is always spot on with all the ownership news.

BOBBY:  Yeah. I think it was Nathan Bernhardt. Yeah, there you go. On Twitter a couple weeks ago, and when Bob was seemingly breaking that the deal was very, very close on the one yard line. And clearly that that didn’t happen. I kind of missed it- like I I I saw the Passan tweet when it came through. But it kind of caught me off guard because I wasn’t able, I had a really busy day. I wasn’t able to really follow the drip drip drip that was kind of leading up to it. I kind of thought it was just gonna be another one of those, despite the fact that I was tweeting BRAND THAT DEAL ZONE, in all caps this morning. Once they had sorted out the international draft, and qualifying offer problem.

ALEX:  Sorted it out by just the punter out on the road.

BOBBY:  Not doing it, right, exactly. Changing the deadline for that one piece. That’s always, the rules are very fluid here. It’s like you can kind of just, it is what you make it. And I think they got to that point where they were close enough in their proposals were delaying the season anymore was not really a positive cost benefit for either side. And so I think that’s why you saw them punt on the issue that seemingly was holding the entire situation up. But I mean, I I want to know, like, wha- were you excited? Like, was your first emotion, joy, baseball is back? I saw your joke about the A’s. But–

ALEX:  Right. I mean, I did go to mets.com to see if, if tickets were available yet. And and they were not, as of, you know, 4:30pm or whatever. I I think I felt happy. But like I don’t really know, like insofar as you can be happy for a, a labor deal to be negotiated in the sport that you have tied your identity to, you know. That ultimately is not going to go near far enough to actually fix the systemic issues in the sport. But will at the very least give some players some positive gains in things that they were trying to accomplish, right? So I guess in that regard, it was nice to see the players get it, get what amounts to a win. Which is like still probably an overall loss for them, just given what we know about how much money is coming into and out of the sport, right? Just this week. And I, we’re gonna record a normal episode on Sunday where we’ll get into this more but but you know, you had two deals break about MLBs streaming deals with Apple TV, and Peacock.

BOBBY:  They worked hard to get that plus in there can you please show them some fucking respect, Apple TV+.

ALEX:  You’re right, I won’t, I won’t silly Tim Cook’s hallmark project, I guess. I don’t really know what Apple does anymore. All this to say like, you know, we can get into the the details of it a little bit more. I know you have them up in front of you. But I think it’s important to say that like when it comes to the things that you and I talk about day in and day out and have been for the last few years. A lot of those issues still remain and and and can’t really be legislated away, right? Like things like encouraging teams to be competitive. Encouraging them to not manipulate service time. You know that as soon as the ink is dried on this deal, owners will find a way to try and manipulate it because that’s that’s what they do, right? I mean, it’s not a surprise to anyone. So–

BOBBY:  I mean, they have the number for Deloitte to find it, to find a way, the the number for Deloitte is typed into their cell phones right now to find a way to get around some of the stuff. The most efficient way to get around some of the stuff that they just agreed to, not three hours ago.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. So I think that’s why my expectations and my excitement has been tempered a little bit. But like, I’m excited, it’s back. I am excited that I am going to be able to watch baseball in a month.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I’ll say, and it’s very hard to have perspective on any of this stuff right now. I said this on on Twitter, when I like kind of threaded my reaction to everything that was coming out about what is in the steel. It’s, it’s impossible to know whether this is a win, or a loss, or whatever that even means in these terms, to, to win. If you ratify a CBA and enough of your members are happy about it, on paper, that’s a win. There are of course, like a lot of things that can change. And like you said, the owners will be immediately looking for ways to exploit this. And that is always going to be a problem in every labor capital dynamic in the United States in any other modern capitalist country. But the fact that you can get together a document that enough people sign off on that they are going back to work, and they are no longer locked out of their jobs. And we as fans are no longer prevented from being able to watch baseball. I think that it is enough to elicit a little bit of joy inside of you and not to feel bad about that immediately. Might feel–

ALEX:  Oh, buddy, you are under estimating my pessimism. I got it.

BOBBY:  We might feel bad in two years for this podcast. And we might come back and be like, This is the worst CBA ever signed in the history of humanity. We didn’t see this $50 billion streaming to Mars deal that they were signing with Amazon–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –coming. And the players have no access to any of that stuff.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  We had no idea any of that was coming. But how do we ever? All you have really is what the players are willing to stand up for. And I think we saw that when kind of awkwardly, the Executive Subcommittee voted 8-0, not to agree to the steel. And then it went to the the player representatives from the 30 teams, which is a different group of 30 players. The Executive Subcommittee is a separate thing. They’re elected to be just members of the Executive Subcommittee, they represent the Union as a whole. They don’t represent the interests of just their specific team necessarily. Now, honestly–

ALEX:  A lot of them are are veteran players, too, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Whereas I believe many of the the 30 team representatives are younger, more pre-arb oriented guys, right? So you can breathe into that what you will it’s so, again, it’s so hard to to make something of a vote like this. I I guess this is your opportunity to get your takes in about how Scott Boras had his finger on the scale for this one.BOBBY:  So the Executive Subcommittee is made up of Andrew Miller, Max Scherzer, Francisco Lindor, Marcus Semien, Zach Britton, James Paxton, Gerrit Cole, and Jason Castro. And those are the eight guys who were most frequently in the room, bargaining. So they’re most intimately familiar with each individual MLB proposal and how they responded to it and what problems they were trying to solve with it. And then the 30 teams all have their own individual representative. And this changes year to year a different person is elected, because oftentimes the guy will get traded or no longer wants to do it, or it’s transitioning into a different phase of his career and wants to focus on whatever. So it went to the vote there because in the MLB Players Association union constitution. It says that in order to ratify a contract, you need a simple majority of those 38 people. The eight people on the Executive Subcommittee and the 30 members who represent their individual teams. Now, there’s also language in there about how all of those people are also considered on the bargaining Committee, which is incredibly chaotic. As someone who’s been inside of a bargaining committee like thinking about that there being 38 people is insane. We had 10, our bargaining committee, but alas, it’s a much bigger union, with much more interests in many different parts of the country. And the world as we saw with the international players draft. So the 30 team members voted yes, 26 to 4, in a, in a very stark departure from the Executive Subcommittee. I don’t really think it’s valuable, to try and glean all that much from that difference there, I the the thing that I feel most comfortable saying is the Executive Subcommittee was in the room, they saw the way that MLB wanted to treat the union throughout these negotiations. They saw the motivation behind each individual thing. They voice their frustration, over the shady behavior by trying to tie some of these things to other things at the 11th hour. And trying to manipulate the media to make it seem like the PA was rejecting them at every single turn, when they were throwing these new wrenches into the equation, any opportunity that they got. And so therefore, the players on the Executive Subcommittee, probably were much more wary than anybody seeing this deal for the first time, or seeing this most recent proposal, divorced of the 15 proposals that came before it. And I think that those 30 guys probably, probably were like, this is a good enough deal to get us back on the field, get our younger players paid a lot better than they have been, in the last couple of years. This is the single biggest increase to the minimum salary that we’ve seen in the 21st century. And I think that’s what happened. I mean, you you could see some, you could read into each individual line of each individual player’s comments for the next five years. But I don’t really even know how constructive that is. Because all of these guys are rowing in the same direction, even if sometimes they’re arguing about the best way to row that way.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, ultimately, it comes down to just like a a vote, right? Like people are, you get 38 people together in a room, and you ask them to vote on something. And there are going to be split interests based on personal political orientations or based on your, you know, experience in the league, or based on how much you are currently making right now, or whatever it is. But you can slice and dice it in any way you want. But I think you’re right, that there was kind of a lot of buzz about that specific nugget coming out of the deal. And it just felt mostly like a way to try and sow division among players. Which who have largely remained incredibly unified in their, in their messaging.

BOBBY:  Yeah, and I think it was reported immediately after that one of the biggest reasons as to why the Executive Subcommittee voted unanimously against it was that they felt like the Competitive Balance Tax could be higher. And guess what? They’re right! But the rest of the union didn’t think that that was a big enough priority right now, to not agree to the deal. To not enshrine all of the other things that we’re about to talk about that are advancing the union’s causes. Now, we could argue till we’re blue in the face, about how much the Competitive Balance Tax really will do to help young players, younger veterans, veterans and older veterans. I don’t know how constructive that is, because like you said, teams will always find a way to manipulate around it no matter what that number is. But I think from a principled perspective, like from a philosophical negotiating perspective, when you’re bargaining against MLB, I think it’s hard to see all these big revenues, and the increase in revenue in the last 10 years. And they’re announcing all of these gambling partnerships in the Apple TV+ partnership. And for them to push back so hard on Competitive Balance Tax for you to then vote yes, for a contract where the CBT is only going up, like $10 million, or $15 million, or $20 million, or whatever it is, throughout the lifespan of this deal. When you know that there’s there’s what a 100% chance that the revenues are going to outpace that. And if you’re on the Executive Subcommittee, you almost certainly know that. Because you’ve been deep in the weeds of this for the last 99 days. And I that’s what I would attribute that difference to. We’ve probably spent enough time talking about that vote. And with, with–

ALEX:  Well, especially just without talking about what it is they were actually voting on. I mean, do you want to get into it?

BOBBY:  No, I I think it’s I think we should get into it. The owners for what it’s worth voted 30-0 to ratify the CBA. They only needed 23, but they got all 30. Which I mean, it just goes to show like how easily, how easy it is for the Management side to tighten screws and remain aligned in this current moment of Major League Baseball. Like they’ve centralized the revenue so much that there’s, for all the talk about the differences between small market and big market owners. For all the talk about the Steve Cohen tax, that they put the third tier of the Competitive Balance Tax, which we’re about to get to. He’s still voted yes. He’s still aligned with all of his other 29 billionaires to keep this sport going in the same direction. So just remember that–

ALEX:  100, 700 billionaire to you, Bobby.

BOBBY:  Right, right. I’m sorry, to Bob Castellini and Mark Attanasio, he was under a billion. I think that’s it.

ALEX:  I mean, Management has always been incredibly effective at showing solidarity, when it comes to fights against labor. And that’s really just what it boils down to.

BOBBY:  Right. Okay. CBA highlights time. Do you want to start with the Competitive Balance Tax? Or do you want to end with it?

ALEX:  You know, I feel like we’ve spent so much time dancing around it. Like, let’s just, let’s, let’s get our hands dirty. Let’s do it.

BOBBY:  This Collective Bargaining Agreement between Major League Baseball in the Major League Baseball Players Association will start the Competitive Balance Tax at 230 million, and it’ll go up 244 million over the lifespan of the deal. There are no meaningful changes to the non-monetary penalties in the Competitive Balance Tax. So a similar structure to the last agreement, which is you lose traffics after your repeat offender after certain amount of time. Probably not worth getting into the weeds on this. I also failed to actually find if the tax percentages were the exact same. I did see Ken Rosenthal reporting that they were similar. So I don’t know if you saw differently, did you?

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  That’s the kind of thing that we’ll sweep up on Sunday, hopefully, after we’ve read the Collective Bargaining Agreement, once it gets released. The other main change that they did was that they added a third surcharge level for once you go a certain amount over top of it. So that was what I was referring to as the Steve Cohen tax. Alex, your thoughts on probably the the biggest, most talked about issue, economic issue in this round of collective bargaining?

ALEX:  Uh, it’s fine. Like, certainly hot take, but like, should it be higher? Yeah. Like, could every team afford for it to be higher? Yeah. Despite Rob Manred’s comments about, you know, market deals, playing out in market fashion. I don’t really know what his exact quote was, right. But his point was that the players would like to see a free market. And you’re gonna see that reflected in the the onfield product.

BOBBY:  Markets produce market results, the MLB, the MLBPA, historically one of the market-based system. I think that the changes that were made in this agreement move dramatically in their direction convenient for you to think that.

ALEX:  Alright, buddy, well we’ve seen drastically different market results across the board for the last decade plus, so–

BOBBY:  I love the way that he weaponizes, like the free market language. Like as if this is a free market, or as it free markets even exist to begin with. But as if even if you did think they exist, that this would be how you would describe it. But th- they are fixing the market. That’s the whole point of being a baseball owner.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That you can decide along with your 30 other cohorts, what the market is.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, ultimately, it’s obviously not really near what the players originally set out to gain. And it’s not near the levels at which it probably shou- should be set, given what we do know about the money that is coming into MLB right now. But they managed to move on it, right, more than $10 million. It’s a small victory, but I, I think a lot of what the players were trying to do is undo some of the things that came up in the last couple CBAs. So you were never really going to see radical changes to the economic structure, right? Because the owners weren’t going to allow that to happen. So if it, you know, all that means is a somewhat modest bump in the CBT, then, you know, so be it.

BOBBY:  I think it’s a little bit more than modest. I mean, it’s a $16 million jump in the first year, it’ll be up at 244 million by the end. Do I think that that is an appropriate number for how the CBT was originally conceived or supposedly was supposed to exist? No, I I don’t. But I think that if that number is going to be treated like a quote unquote, “salary cap” that the big market teams are supposed to spend up to. I think that that would be good for the game, if those teams actually spent like that. The big problem with the CBT and we’ve talked about this numerous times in our CBA-ABC episode about this. In our appearance on the Phillies Nation Podcast, is the big market team that spends $30 million less than the CBT. That decides to set their own hard cap that is $20 to $30 million underneath that. If all those teams were spending up to that, yeah, we could haggle over whether that number is the right number. But it would be much less urgent of a problem. And the union would have had to spend much less political capital on trying to raise that number. So that the three teams that actually do go towards it are the four teams now that the Mets are owned by someone who actually has money in their bank account. I think that as long as those teams and teams of their ilk are spending that and spending over that when they want to be in a championship window, so to speak, then I think that this is an okay number. I don’t look at this and say it was all for not it’s certainly not the the radical transformative CBT number that we were hoping for two years ago when we were talking about the potential work stoppage strike lockout talk. But it’s not bad.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think that’s where I come down on it too. And again, like we prefaced at the top of the episode, it’s so hard to read the tea leaves this early on. Because we really don’t know how owners are going to treat this. We don’t know how close teams are going to be willing to get to that. We don’t know how many teams are actually going to be willing to say fuck it, and blow through, you know, the first second, third tier of taxation. The fact that they were able to raise the CBT, the fact that the players were able to raise the CBT, you know, upwards of 15 million is like, ultimately a good thing, right? Like–

BOBBY:  Right. And I think, if we were to look at this for for the CBT. And then just kind of for the rest of the pot of what is in the CBA, if we look at it from the perspective of what were the goals of the union that they set out to accomplish this. And one of them was to stop the Competitive Balance Tax from functioning as a salary cap. And pivot it more back towards preventing runaway spending, as it was supposedly designed to do. In the late 1990s when it blew up the ’94 season. It was a, it was a Yankees tax, basically. And I think now with this number, jumping $20 million next year, I think it’s going to expose a lot of those teams that were at, like 190. And saying that they had no mon– no more money to go. Because all of a sudden the Competitive Balance Tax is now, two really good players hire, and you’re not even signing one really good pl- you know what I mean? Like, I think that it aims at accomplishing that goal. Even if I don’t really know that there’s any kind of hard set number that could accomplish that goal, without owners also behaving appropriately alongside it.

ALEX:  Right. And the tough thing is like, there isn’t really anything that’s incentivizing those teams to spend more money. Other than you hope that the market forces them to, the market, quote unquote, “forces them to”, right? Which is those, as you said, those big teams actually going out and making a competitive push. Now, it’s, it’s made kind of interesting with the expansion of the the postseason, because obviously, we have, we are encouraging teams to spend more. At the same time we’re widening the field of teams that can actually get into the playoffs. Which doesn’t exactly incentivize going all out and blowing over 220, 230 million. I can say it’s a blessing that we did not get a 14 team playoff. Because that may–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –have, that may have been it for me, I would have.

BOBBY:  I do think, again, and this comes back to how front office’s and ownership are willing to conceive of their motive heading into every season and heading into every trade deadline, honestly. Because it’s now a bigger failure if you don’t make the postseason. Like 12 team postseason means that you’re a lot closer to contention. You don’t have to win your division, you know. You don’t have to chase the team that lost their division because the Dodgers won 110. You know what I mean? Like you now should probably make the playoffs if you’re trying. In the current structure of Major League Baseball, so many teams, a third of the league are completely punting on every season, that now if you don’t want to completely punt, there are enough players out there for you to go get a roster good enough to make the 12 team postseason. And I think that we should frame it as such going forward. Not that we have had a problem with framing competitive behavior. But I think that’s a good opportunity to start talking now about one of the other goals of the Union, which was to curb some of that anti-competitive behavior behavior to try to make it less financially beneficial to tank. And I I gotta be honest, this is what the one of the ones that I’m most skeptical on in this Collective–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –Bargaining Agreement. Because nothing transformative was brought into this about anti-competitive behavior. There’s no real penalty that I can see with this, that if you just filter it through the lens of what did the Astros do? What did the Cubs do? What are the Orioles doing right now? Would the draft lottery have stopped them from doing that? I I don’t think it would, like the Astros did their rebuild. And the guy that they got with the top overall pick, wasn’t even part of the good team. They got the rest of their team with just other first-rounders that wouldn’t have been affected by this draft lottery at all. So again, I think that there are still massive, massive loopholes, even in this new Collective Bargaining Agreement that can be exposed by teams who don’t think winning is important. And I think that that’s kind of like the original sin of ownership right now.

ALEX:  Right. And and that gets back to what I was trying to say up top, right? Is that like, there is really no rule that you can put in place to compel owners to be on their best behavior, right? Because that’s just not honestly, that’s not why they’re there, necessarily. Just the, with the way that profits have been decoupled from winning. They, the incentive isn’t there for them to go out and try and put the best product on the field. Maybe it’s there, if you have a bit of an ego, right? I mean, I think that’s why there’s a bit of optimism around a guy like Steve Cohen, who many Mets fans are hoping just goes balls to the wall, are they spending, right? Again, we’ll see, but I think a lot of the systemic issues that have troubled the sport over the last few years, remain. Even if you’re rewarding teams with draft picks for not manipulating service time. Which I still cannot wrap my head around, I still cannot wrap my head around the fact that we are rewarding teams for not doing something that was already against the rules, you know? Like that, if you actually were interested in solving this issue, Rob Manfred, instead of litigating this with the Players Association, he would go to the owners and say, You gotta cut this shit out. And and I have a dozen other owners who are on my side about this. So you know, put up or shut up. And obviously, that’s not going to happen, because Robin Manfred would be out on this ass. But I–

BOBBY:  The service time manipulation element of this is probably one of the most disappointing and frustrating things to talk about when we talk about labor relations. Because it is so out of anyone’s control. Anyone who anyone who cares. You know, it’s so out of anybody who has a righteous or moral worldview of service time manipulation, to actually affect change when it comes to any of this stuff. Because it is so ambiguous as to why you would promote someone to the major leagues. If you, if you really think about it, what is ready mean? What do we know about ready? It’s so nuanced, it’s so specific. And so it’s very easy to obscure and like, do I think that promoting young players should lead to reward like a reward like a draft pick, like you’re talking about, that they just agree to in this collective bargaining agreement? No, like, I don’t think that’s the right thing to do, to reward bad behavior. Basically, incentivize them to continue to find loopholes so that they can bargain good thing for themselves in the future. And make that a new, make that basically status quo when it comes to labor relations. I think that’s fucked up. But also, we could do this podcast for the next two hours. And I don’t think that I could spit ball a better idea for how to fix service time manipulation. Kris Bryant lost and that was the most clear cut, service time manipulation, since you and I have graced this earth.

ALEX:  Kevin Mather’s autobiography is going to be titled: What do we know about ready?

BOBBY:  No, dude, his autobiography is going to be titled: I know about ready, and–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –I don’t care.

ALEX:  Yeah. 

BOBBY:  So we’ve now knocked off three of the union’s stated top priorities, three out of four. The fourth one, which I think was the most righteous and easy one to get behind was get players paid younger. Younger players have been the most hard done by the trends of the last two, but three, really three CBAs as we’ve seen, your man’s Billy Beane’s Moneyball ethos, really take hold in every single front office, and have that Moneyball analytics forward mindset really become like a religion that these teams follow in how they select their players. It’s really like, which players the cheapest, the youngest guy? How can we get the youngest guy to be as good as possible, but make sure it’s still the youngest guy so that we can still be paying him pre=arb arbitration salaries. And the union was like, that’s a huge problem. These guys are contributing more value onto the field and for the product than they ever have in the history of baseball, we have to try to fix this. So they spent a ton of time. And I think rightfully so focusing on getting the minimum salary up, there was at $575,000 in 2021, and heading into 2022 now with the new CBA, it will start at $700,000, it will go up $20,000 every year for the lifespan of this agreement, so that it will end at $780,000. Just the jump from last year to this year, will be the biggest percentage increase, like I said, in the 21st century for the minimum salary, they did good. And they also conceived of this idea of this pre-arbitration bonus pool $50 million spread out to the top performing players who are still not yet arbitration eligible. I think of all four priorities that the union had heading into these negotiations, I think this is the one that you can really look at. And check that box and say, we’re really proud of this.

ALEX:  I agree with the exception of how the pre-arb pool is going to be distributed.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Because the money is going to go to, as you said, pre-arb players who perform well, but really, who perform well and voting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America, right? So an MVP or a Cy Young winner will get a couple million dollars. The the second place, players will receive a slightly lower sum, third, fourth, and fifth, get a slightly lower sum and and Rookie of the Year it gets a set number, second place Rookie of the Year. And then all MLB team, you know, the thing that you and I care you and I and many fans care a lot about those guys get rewarded as well. That, which I should point out is voted on half by media members and half by fans?

BOBBY:  Ohhh… ohhh…

ALEX:  The rest of, the rest of the pool is distributed by WAR, which in itself is still like a question of how that’s going to be determined if it’s going to be a proprietary number, if it’s going to be a just a blend of all the types of WAR. [38:36]–

BOBBY:  Yeah! [38:36] on the pod! Yeah.

ALEX:  But I don’t know, I there’s something that is a little icky to me about tying a player’s salary, or or bonus to something that can be decided on by, say, members of the media. Who there are many of whom I have much respect and admiration for. And many of whom I don’t, and don’t really think they should have a [39:07] and they actually think a lot of members of the BBWAA would agree with that point that they don’t necessarily want to be a part of that process, if that makes sense. So that’s really the I think the only point in that kind of getting younger players paid more section that I’m not entirely sold on yet. Everything else, let’s do it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I agree. I mean, this is a huge problem in basketball. They have a structure in their CBA where, since they are a salary cap league, there is a maximum contract that you’re allowed to receive. You’re only allowed to make a certain percentage of the salary cap. Now, if you finish on the 1st Team All-NBA or you finish within the first three teams All-NBA in your first five seasons, whatever, you are allowed to be offered what’s called the supermax extension as a player who was coming up off of their Rookie contract, or about to sign their second contract or whatever.

ALEX:  That’s an iPhone ass name right there, was just a max, supermax, supermax plus.

BOBBY:  Uhm, this is a significantly different sum of money. Like the regular max for a while there was like five years 190. The supermax was like five years to 45. This is a lot of money that is on the line here. And it’s voted exclusively by media members. And media members like Zach Lowe have been talking on their podcasts and in their columns for a long time about how that’s a really, really, really heavy burden for the media. And it doesn’t even really seem fair, because how much does the media really understand about how much a player means to a team financially? Like that doesn’t seem like we should cross those streams. And it seems odd that baseball would choose to opt into that problem when they didn’t have it before. But I guess the counter to that argument would be the flip side is do you make it just based on WAR then? Do you make it just based on statistical value? Because then you start running into problems like we’ve talked about in the past, or like when they first floated this arbitration based on war system that was roundly rejected and mocked by everybody in media. And in the Players Association as well, where, you know, relievers have no chance. Service time manipulation suddenly means millions and millions of dollars back in the owners pockets. Like all of these things that then crop up if you do it just based on statistics. So I suppose like a blend of these, these things, is better than relying just solely on one of them. But the real answer would have been just knock off years of of service time, or and let them negotiate it with their agents or get to arbitration earlier, and the Players Association–

ALEX:  Double the minimum salary and put it at like a million, right? Like–

BOBBY:  Right, and the Players Association, unfortunately, backed off all of those proposals.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  So, yeah, it’s not as strong as it could have been. It is not, as I’ve mentioned a couple times now in this podcast, the radical transformative, Collective Bargaining Agreement that we were hoping for two years ago. But I think a lot of young players will be excited about the increase in salary minimums and the potential to perform up to more bonuses. Which they haven’t really ever had that structure didn’t really exist. It’s creative and it’s a way for younger players to get more money in their pockets earlier in their career, in the event that they don’t ever sign that huge, Max Scherzer deal.

ALEX:  Yeah, I agree. I think this sets the table for young players pretty well, going forward. And hopefully, sets a sort of precedent for what actually can be negotiated in the CBA when this comes up again. Because it it will, right? This is not going to exist in perpetuity, this is going to be opened right back up in a few years, most likely. And many of these same issues might be on the table. So I think there was a big kind of moral victory in a sense that the players really could go toe to toe with management, and not back down and actually win some concessions, right? After all of the blustering from owners about fake deadlines, and threats of canceled games, and not receiving a full season’s pay. The players actually made it work, they got many of the things that they were looking for, Again, even if it was not the militantly radical CBA that we wanted, and we’re never going to get, right?

BOBBY:  Maybe next time.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly. We got to have Max, Andrew, Francisco on, we’ll chat them up.

BOBBY:  Perhaps the Players Association could consult us before their next round of collective bargaining.

ALEX:  Let me tell you, if the Players Association is going to consult anyone that before their next round of collective bargaining, I would like to be the last person on the list.

BOBBY:  I’m with you there. Uhm, a couple more miscellaneous things Speed Round really quickly for you, Alex. Don’t have time to go in depth really on any of these things. And nor do we have the details, really, at this moment more on Sunday. But I did see some reports coming out that the Players Association expanded the union’s ability to negotiate with sports betting agencies. That seems bad. Just a day or two after Calvin Ridley of the NFL was suspended an entire year for illegally betting on NFL games. Seems like a bad idea. However, if the owners are going to pump their own pockets for sports betting money. I don’t totally fault the players for being like, I’m the person that’s bringing this product and making it possible. Why can’t I actually be financially compensated? You’re making money off of me?

ALEX:  Yeah. And look if Jeff Passan can shill for NFtT on his Twitter account, like the players can get paid from sports betting.

BOBBY:  Now is where I do the Jeff Passan.

ALEX:  Do it!

BOBBY:  Emergency–

ALEX:  [45:22] cap on.

BOBBY:  –emergency alarm. pause the podcast, pause the CBA discussion. Now is where I do that Jeff Passan was hacked because he wrote a column panning MLB owners last week, and he was going hard at them, he was on our to see too last week saying that the media has been too kind to owners for the last two decades. Jeff, you’re part of the media and you’ve been a mainstream baseball reporter with hundreds–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –thousands of followers for like over a decade. You were a big–

ALEX:  [45:54]

BOBBY:  –part of this my guy. But the owners were like enough of bass, Jeff Passan, we need to knock him back down a peg. So now we’re gonna make him into an NFT shell so that nobody takes him seriously. They hired–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –some black site, defense tech contractor to send him a phishing link. I don’t know what that link was to. And I don’t care. But he clicked it, I think.

ALEX:  See, I really do care. I’m so curious. What, what is the link that a guy like Jeff Passan, who is by all accounts a very skilled reporter and seemingly smart dude. Like, what is the random link that he got? That was like, yeah, this looks legit to me, right? It it wasn’t, I need you to wire me 5 million US dollars right now. Enter your Twitter credentials, right?

BOBBY:  John Henry is stuck in Europe. He’s lost his wallet. He needs to get back to the United States to sign the CBA and ratify it. Please wire him $1 million in Bitcoin today and he–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –will pay it back tenfold so that he can fly his private jet back to Boston.

ALEX:  Hello, Jeff. I am Rob Manfred. Here is a look at the next Collective Bargaining Agreement. Click here for see. Don’t worry about–

BOBBY:  I’m still curious, PDF name accidentally talk to texted while driving and parking in Manhattan.

ALEX:  I want to know, I want to know. Jeff, if you feel comfortable telling the people that this is the place to do it.

BOBBY:  Who would we be if we did not derail the podcast for three minutes to talk horse shit about Jeff Passan. The players are dropping their grievance from 2020, in the pandemic return to play. They filed a grievance for $1 billion over lost revenue because the owners were negotiating in bad faith on that return to play and always planned to institute a 60 game season. Despite claiming they wanted to play as many games as possible. The players are dropping that we kind of knew that this would happen, it still stings. Do you have thoughts on that? Or you want to just save that for Sunday?

ALEX:  I think it does stink. I think it equally stinks that the owners perhaps unsurprisingly, decided to slip that asking at the last minute as they are want to do, right? At the 11th hour say, oh, by the way, can we also have this, right? When you are so close to the end zone on a deal? Now, they, the owners asked for the players to drop both lawsuits, right? There’s one from 2018 regarding revenue sharing, right. There are a few teams that were essentially accused of just pocketing the money. That one is still ongoing, which I think is probably the more important one of the two–

BOBBY:  In terms of precedent.

ALEX:  –but–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –in terms of precedent, yes. But it still stinks and it’s just kind of shady that this is how that issue ended up being resolved, right? That it just kind of fizzled out with this CBA.

BOBBY:  Yeah, it’s just like, yeah, they can get away with it.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Just like they get away with a lot of stuff in a lot of aspects of our lives. And I think the Players Association probably thought that this was a long shot to ever win in the courts because of all of the built in benefits that owners have. Like the antitrust exemption like courts not wanting to anger large political donor. Like millions of different reasons, billions of different reasons, you could say. So they dropped it in order to not hurt players being locked out in real time, who wanted to get back to playing. But I I do think it just kinda just feels like a little bit like you got the the wind knocked out of you, when you find out that this is dropped right at the last second. The last two things, players can only be optioned back down to the minor leagues five times per season. This was previously they were previously allowed to be options six times this will improve the quality of life of a lot of guys who get shuffled back and forth. Just one less time for you to get sent back down to Triple-A, so that the Rays can bring up another bullpen arm, which is good. I mean, that’s it’s not a huge, probably not going to be a huge financial win. But it is a quality of life and a qualitative win in a way. And then, like we mentioned at the beginning, the qualifying offer in exchange for the International draft that is still open, they have until July to decide what to do with that if they can’t come to an agreement on what the international draft should look like. Then the qualifying offer will be reinstated back as it was, in the previous agreement, the qualifying offer being a contract that a team can offer to an upcoming free agent, that if they turn down that contract, then that team gets an extra draft pick. This is anti-player because that contract that they offer, the qualifying offer is usually not actually up to market value for that player. So most people turn it down and then the teams get an extra draft pick. And it’s like you get more team control out of it. It’s the whole thing. It’s very complicated. We’ll get more into that on Sunday. Once I’ve had time to read about what the fucking international draft is and what it actually looks like. Because this is a real area of weakness for Tipping Pitches, let me tell you. I want to close with this, Alex, as we our 30-minute reaction pod is now approaching 60 minutes. Alden Gonzalez and ESPN baseball reporter tweeted a screenshot of a quote from the Rod Manfred press conference, which I was not able to to check out. Let’s do another stuff. Here’s that quote, “One of the things that I’m supposed to do is promote a good relationship with our players. I’ve tried to do that. I think that I have not been successful in that. I think that it begins with small steps. It’s why I picked up the phone after the ratification and call Tony, and express my desire to work with him. It’s gonna be a priority of mine moving forward to try and make good on the commitment I made to him on the phone.” Your thoughts?

ALEX:  That’s rich, Rob, after the ratification and he picked up the phone and says, Hey, why don’t we get along? Why do we fight? After slipping in those demands to drop the lawsuits at the 11th hour. After months of stonewalling the players getting up onto a podium and saying outright lies that Manfred was called out about in almost real time? I don’t know, all I can really say is like, I’ll believe it when I see it, dude. You’ve given neither the fans nor the players, any reason to trust you. So he has a lot of work to do when it comes to rebuilding that goodwill. Which, I mean, I guess I believe him when I say he doesn’t want an acrimonious relationship with the players, because I think that kind of sucks for his brand. But I think it also means it’s because the players are fighting back and asking for more of the pie, which I think he doesn’t want either.

BOBBY:  So I had a bunch of thoughts. When I first saw this quote, I’ve gone back and forth a few times, because I’ve been on the other end of signing a CBA. And it is kind of freeing in that way. Once you have this piece of paper that governs your entire working relationship. And you then know whatever built in acrimony there is into the labor capital dynamic in this world that we have here. You at least know that you now have scaffolding to guide you in that in building that relationship back up. However, I was reminded of Rob Manfred’s quote that I read and I forget who put this in their story earlier this week, when the negotiations fell through at one of the fake deadlines, one of the seven fake deadlines that we’ve had in this process. Where Rob said when he came in, and he took over for Bud Selig, one of the things that he wanted to prioritize most was the positive relationship with players. He felt like there’s been so acrimonious, so much acrimony in the history of this game, which I thought was hilarious because he’d been negotiating for the owners for the last 20 years. This is the guy that negotiated all of the shitty deals for the players. On behalf of the owners, he was on the other side, taking the tomb, one CBA clause at a time. And for him to come in and say that at the beginning of his commissionership tenure, that’s when you got to start doing that. You have to start building that relationship from the jump man. And now it’s certainly looks like you’re just saying that because it’s a cute thing to say, once you’ve signed the CBA. And he went on to call the CBA. an olive branch to the Players Association. And when I saw that I was like, Okay, I’m fully flipped on the other side, fuck this guy. This is not an olive branch to the MLBPA, this is a collectively bargained agreement that they stood together and bargain against you. You did not give them this.

ALEX:  You were legally required to come to the table and do this. Like, [55:21]

BOBBY:  If you had just give me giving them olive branches this whole time, we wouldn’t have had a fucking lockout. We wouldn’t have had a quote unquote, “defensive lockout”. We wouldn’t have had 43 days of silence from the ownership side. We wouldn’t have had bad actors for the entire last CBA and the CBA before that. We wouldn’t have had potential free agent collusion. When all we had the free agent spending strike from the ownership side. We wouldn’t have had the championship belt for keeping arbitration prices, the lowest. We wouldn’t have had the strike in 1994, when you were negotiating for MLB on the other side. If you’re just handing out olive branches, what was all that stuff? Like, no, you did this because you had to. Because luckily, at one point in time, the United States was like, yeah, the National Labor Relations Act is a good thing that we should do. That would never happen again. But at least it did happen at one point. So it’s an olive branch, Rob, that was such a slap in the face. And it’s just like Rob, to get up there. And think that this is the right tone to strike. On this day. You should have just been like we’re happy baseball is back. Let’s move on. I called Tony, congratulations, Tony knows that like who is that for? Who are you telling that to?

ALEX:  Well, let lest we go out on a on a down note. I will, I will counter your Rob Manfred statement with, with a statement from, from one of our own. True to his curmudgeonly self, one Senator Bernie Sanders came out with a statement following the end of the MLB lockout, saying, yes, I’m very happy that that an agreement was reached. But the baseball oligarchs, oligarchs who are running this game, are running it into the ground. Which is why I would like to introduce legislation to remove MLB’s Antitrust Exemption. Again, it’s very easy to gain some political capital by saying that, as one Dick Durbin tried to do by just grifting off the news earlier this week.

BOBBY:  I mean, without a name like Dick Durbin, what else were you going to do in life besides griffiths?

ALEX:  I want to say it is Bernie don’t get my hopes up. Unless you’re serious, bro.

BOBBY:  Seriously, stop teasing.

ALEX:  Yeah, come on.

BOBBY:  Also, come on the podcast if you’re going to put out statements like that when a CBA is signed. Come on, dawg. Come on. This is an independent podcast that’s been talking about labor in baseball for years. And you’re gonna play a statement calling the owners oligarchy who are ruining the game and you won’t even come on the pod. Man, if anyone is listening right now who has any sort of tangential connection to forward an email to Bernie Sanders that will actually be responded to please, for the love of God. It’s time, it’s time.

ALEX:  Right. If you haven’t heard our six or seven, please in the past, we’re hoping maybe this eighth one.

BOBBY:  We’re gonna start asking, we’re not gonna keep asking so nicely, Bernie. We’re we’re gonna show up in Vermont, and demand that you come on the pod. I have a just a boom mic yelling questions to you.

ALEX:  You know what? I think you do it.

BOBBY:  I think you would. Alex, this has been the Collective Bargaining Agreement reaction pod that we’ve been waiting to do for three years. I hope everybody enjoyed it. We will be back with another pod on our normal schedule, Monday morning. Hopefully we have the full agreement to dig into. And we have the benefit of more time to sit with some of these ideas. This was kind of emotion and caffeine driving this one for me at least. And for you cold medication which you held it together pretty well, my friend.

ALEX:  Appreciate that. If you the listener, have questions about the CBA about the lockout, but how things are going to unfold over the next few months, coming years. We’ll do our absolute very best to try to answer them, tippingpitchespod@gmail.com. You can call into our voicemail 785-422-5881. If you have takes, you have Dick Durbin takes, hit our line. And as always, you know you can find us on Twitter @tipping_pitches–

BOBBY:  Too much, too much on Twitter.

ALEX:  Seriously, slide into our DMS though it’s, we’re there.

BOBBY:  We’re gonna spend a decent amount of time on the next pod just answering questions straight up that people have about the CBA and the end of the lockout. And responding to people’s feelings that they’ve been feeling over the last three months. Alex baseball is officially back now. The next pod that we do the Mets are going to have signed Kris Bryant and Carlos Correa. I’m officially back, baby, back in New York backroom for the Mets because they’re not locked out anymore. Max Scherzer is officially my team’s number 2 starter. Let’s go! Thanks for listening everybody. We’ll be back in just a few days.

[1:00:24]

[Music]

[1:00:33]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMarch 11, 2022Posted inAudio, Episode
Leave a comment on Emergency New CBA Just Dropped Pod	
MLB Is In the No-Deal Zone

Bobby and Alex bask in the glorious prose of Bob Nightengale’s accidental poem and give Derek Jeter his due as a spurned former owner, then recap a whirlwind of a week in labor talks, including MLB’s astute weaponizing of the media, Rob Manfred’s press conference, the movement in the players’ latest offer, the concept of bad faith negotiating, and much more.

Songs featured in this episode:

The Beatles — “For No One” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I would like to start the podcast this week, by reading you a, a poem that I saw online. It’s been a busy week for me and moved into a new apartment. All of my belongings are strewn about haphazardly, as we sit here to record this.

ALEX:  But as we sit here, it should be noted in person–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –face to face.

BOBBY:  How, how do you prove that over audio? Like if I, if I reach over and like tap your mic while I’m talking?

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Do you think that that would be a different listener experience?

ALEX:  Ye- I, it would be an experience for sure.

BOBBY:  Uhm, despite all of that, despite my life being kind of chaotic, and this last week, poetry is something that that grounds me. And so I wanted to read this poem to you. And for our listeners, in this moment of chaos in the baseball world.

ALEX:  I’m ready.

BOBBY:  “It is now midnight. And no one is moving. As the two sides moving ever, so closer.”

ALEX:  I really appreciated the inflections in your voice there.

BOBBY:  Right. The inflections of me trying not to laugh–

ALEX:  To laugh.

BOBBY:  –too hard. Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  That’s right, Bob Nightengale accidental slam poetry god.

BOBBY:  “It is now midnight, and no one is moving as the two sides moving ever so closer”. Of course, I’m referring to the fact that as it was now midnight, no one was moving. As the two sides were moving ever, so closer, leading up to the Major League Baseball deadline to start the regular season on time. We got a little bit of momentum, something that we’re not accustomed to seeing in baseball labor negotiations, and it looked for a hot second, Alex. Like we were going to get a deal before the February 28th bargaining session concluded, and that we would be able to start the season on time. But that turned out to be a facade, you might say, because of what Bob Nightengale so poetically described. So while moving- while the two sides moving ever so closer.

ALEX:  I, here’s the thing is, it it somehow makes sense, you know, like in a word in a weird, twisted way.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Certainly, certainly the two sides were moving. They they weren’t having a discussion.

BOBBY:  Is is what you think happened here that Bob started one tweet? And and thought that he had scrapped that tweet language. And then he started a second tweet, but then just forgot to delete the first part of the tweet.

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  So this is, this is contradictory language here.

ALEX:  Well, I mean, do you want my actual–

BOBBY:  No one is moving and the two sides are moving ever so closer. Those are two different.

ALEX:  My actual belief in what happened is that he was talking about everyone outside of the negotiating room. So reporters fans, again, it’s like midnight or whatever–

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  –and no–

BOBBY:  So no one–

ALEX:  –one–

BOBBY:  –no one is moving as everybody is like–

ALEX:  Right. Everyone is like–

BOBBY:  –laying their tracks like this might happen.

ALEX:  Right. I’m not going to go home now. Because the deal, you know, maybe coming down the pipeline.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And as the, as the two sides are on the [3:48]–

BOBBY:  Moving closer, no one is moving on the edge of their seat.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Glued to the edge of their seat as the two sides moving ever so closer.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  See, this is why we talk this out. Like this is why we start the podcast with this. Because I think annotating texts to find subtext is a really like under sold art form.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  In our modern media world, it’s all about like tweets and replies.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  It’s not about like getting into the nitty gritty of the language anymore.

ALEX:  And I appreciate that Bob Nightengale so often allows us to consider a a a broader scope of how we can use the English language,–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –right? That kind of I think goes beyond–

BOBBY:  It’s not all out there for us–

ALEX:  It’s like–

BOBBY:  –it’s all out there.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  You have to, you have to earn it.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  This is we didn’t learn this at J-school.

BOBBY:  Inverted Pyramid is all I remember learning at J-school. And I remember that Twitter, I actually learned in J-school, that Twitter was going to be very important for the future of journalism, and we learned that as baseball fans on Tuesday night as well.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  No, we actually learned nothing from Twitter on Tuesday night. That was anything approaching reality. Instead, we learned what the league wanted us to learn. We are going to talk about that. We’re going to talk about the fact that the first two series of the Major League Baseball season have been officially canceled by MLB Commissioner, Robert D. Manfred. And we’re probably going to talk about banning the shift. Like I guess, we’re going to talk about that and robot empires. From the same room, live from Brooklyn, New York. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[5:33]

[Music Theme]

ALEX:  Before we actually get into it, because and there is is a lot of it to get into.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  We should talk about what is at least according to one writer, an even bigger story than the labor negotiations and even bigger story in baseball right now.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And that is Derek Jeter, is stepping down from his role as CEO and part owner of the Miami Marlins.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  Would you, would you like to venture a guess as to the writer who believes that this is the, a bigger story than labor negotiations right now.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Starts with Tom ends with Verducci. The guy who’s had all access passes to–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –Derek Jeter, in the past the guy who if you’re listening to this and you you listened way back when, when Alex and I did that dramatic reading of Tom Verducci’s profile of Derek Jeter for Sports Illustrated, titled: The Boss is Here. I just want to say, you know, big thank you, if you want, email me your address, and I’ll send you a Christmas card or something. That’s like that’s deep cuts stuff right there.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Tom Verducci like semi-radically describing the desk that Derek Jeter was sitting at–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –like talking about how he’s the only human being on the planet who could turn around the Marlins. And now, whoa, three years later, there he is. He’s out, he realized that, oh, owners don’t actually want to spend.

ALEX:  It, so–

BOBBY:  George Steinbrenner was actually an anomaly.

ALEX:  Yep, he was. Well, and so like, obviously, I I am being facetious when I when I when I somewhat endorse his theory that it’s a bigger conversation than- it’s a bigger story than labor negotiations right now. But it is kind of a fascinating twist that came amidst the the most tense moment of the offseason as–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –far. And as Verducci astutely points out, it is, it does tell you a little bit about the state of the sport that one of the this generations or the or I suppose last generations, most revered players–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –stepped down from being an owner. Tried it out and said, Damn–

BOBBY:  this shit sucks.

ALEX:  –this shit sucks. I’m getting out of here.

BOBBY:  I know, it was, some ominous timing by Jeter stepped down when he did. And I think that it caused a lot of people to draw like conclusions about the fact that Jeter was stepping down in solidarity with the MLB Players Association. And I think that that’s kind of a little bit overblown. Like, I think that it’s more so coincidental that this came at the same time, and that Jeter was kind of getting out of dodge before the season was really getting underway, like while the lockout was still going on. But it’s a, it’s a pretty damning indictment of, I think the landscape of your sport when a revered former player shows an obvious interest in getting into the management side of baseball. With with a franchise that he wasn’t even involved with directly in his playing days. And in less than 5 years. After having the stated goal of wanting to turn Miami into a winning franchise, it’s a pretty damning indictment of where the sport is at that that player can’t last longer than 3 years.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like this is Michael Jordan going to buy the Bobcats. Except he still owns the Bobcats.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. And because the sport has generally been doing pretty well over the last decade, two decades–

BOBBY:  Even if the bobcats have been bad, and I’ve now been moved to be the Hornets. I just think that it’s it’s another one of those things that’s so indicative of the divide between players and owners and how they view what the sport should be like. Even if basketball which is the example that I just use, but, but it’s true of other sports in America too. Like even if it’s always going to be businesses business among the owner in class, like at least they understand that business is the sport. Whereas like baseball owners don’t really always seem to think that business is the sport. They don’t show the players the proper respect when it comes to acknowledging the fact that they are the the product and the workers at the same time. And that’s sort of like a unique thing to sports. Which is how we got ourselves here. I’m glad we paid our respects to Derek.

ALEX:  I I’ve really come like like full circle on Derek Jeter. I mean, I it’s been really remarkable to witness the evolution of both his and Alex Rodriguez’ public personas over the last–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –5 or 6 years, right? Where, where A. Rod obviously was a villain for so long. And then kind of near the end of his Yankees career and those first few years in retirement, he had the redemption story. There were profiles written about him, and he was all of a sudden on TV and talking about baseball and everyone. Everyone was like I were work in on A. Rod.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And obviously–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –Derek Jeter has–

BOBBY:  A. Rod industrial complex. It was alive and well.

ALEX:  Yes, it was booming. And Derek Jeter said, Yeah, I’m gonna go become an owner. And we were like, damn, really, dude?

BOBBY:  Yeah. Yeah.

ALEX:  And now and now–

BOBBY:  We love a based owner.

ALEX:  I feel like the tables have turned. Yeah, we’re back on on jitsu side.

BOBBY:  Yeah, geez.

ALEX:  I think so.

BOBBY:  I’ll tell you one thing, you know, who would not have stepped down from running the Miami Marlins because of seeing- because of differences of opinion over how to run a team?

ALEX:  Who’s that?

BOBBY:  Alex Rodriguez.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  He would have been like, mom making a lot of money here.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  It’s just like my landlord business.

ALEX:  Yeah. Can we cut payroll more? Can we, can we run out 24 players? Do we have to go to the max roster limit?

BOBBY:  Well, he’s getting to play out his fantasies in the National Basketball Association.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  We can’t start talking about A. Rod as early in the podcast. We have a continuing lockout to discuss. Where do we start? Like should we, should we start with a Rob Manfred press conference? Should we start with the night before the Rod Manfred press conference when for a couple hours there you and I were texting each other thinking that the steel might actually land somewhere before I kind of like rubbed the sleepiness out of my eyes at 1am Eastern Time, and realized, oh, man, it’s weird that Bob Nightengale and John Heyman and Buster Olney. Like these types of–

ALEX:  Joel Sherman.

BOBBY:  Yeah, Joel Sherman, like these types of guys seem to be the only ones who have this. And Evan Drellich, who has been reporting beat by beat since December 1st and earlier. He was kind of like our source text for dating all the way back to pandemic return negotiations. He’s radio silent right now. And Jeff Passan is radio silent right now. And Hannah Kaiser is radio silent right now. And a lot of people like got their excitement up thinking oh, they were about to reach a deal. And then the next morning turns out they actually were not that close to reaching a deal.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  So did you find yourself duped at all, that evening? Because I think that I, if you when read our text messages right now, I think you could probably find one from me that says Oh, shit, we might get a deal. Oh, this might be really happening. Bob might be getting this. Yup, Bob might have gotten the scoop to end all scoops finally.

ALEX:  Solely because it was Bob Nightengale I still had hesitation, you know. I said, and I think I may have texted you that I was like I’m still I’m still waiting for Drellich to confirm anything. You know, like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –and and I insert cheap joke about Bob Nightengale reporting the opposite of what actually happens. Bum shesh. But like it was a really bizarre, it seemed like it came out of left field that he all of a sudden [13:45]–

BOBBY:  Have a joke, nice. Man, you’re full of them.

ALEX:  I am. That again it as you mentioned, out of nowhere, that radio silence from some of the biggest reporters in the sport that he was having “the scoop” to end all scoops. That alone was enough to make me think that there was maybe something else at play. Although I think like many other people on on baseball, Twitter, and boy was that a night for baseball Twitter, man.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I have not felt that level of camaraderie.

BOBBY:  Put that one straight in the instant classics.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like that, that one is running back the next night on ESPN Classic.

ALEX:  I think that collectively a lot of people thought this might be it.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  That they have implemented their deadline. It would make sense that they would wait until the very last minute–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –to hash all this stuff out. But maybe they’re actu- this a, this is the light at the end of the tunnel obviously. It was not to be.

BOBBY:  Uhm, yeah, obviously the no one was moving as the two sides were moving–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –so closer.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But it followed like it, that, I think the thing that tricked all of us, dupe all of us, bamboozled all of us, lead us all astray.

ALEX:  Right, pulled the the wool over our eyes.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think that the thing about it was that dating back to like, the first labor negotiation that I can remember even being aware of like covering was when we were in college together at the student newspaper, covering the NYU Graduate Student Union. Their contract, which was expiring with New York University, and they had a, you know, full on strike vote. And at midnight, if they didn’t get a deal done by then it looked like they were going to go on strike. And we were gearing up to cover that strike. The picket lines, send people to write new stories about that the very next day, and the news trickled in. And I, you had to start writing an article at 12:07, that they got a deal. And we were like, wait, what? Like we this was completely not the plan that we had here. And this was not what either side was saying. So I think that people, I think that people, whether they know it or not realize that that is a cadence that this kind of stuff follows a lot. And that’s what happened in 2020, with a pandemic restart, they waited until the very last minute. And Rob had the ability to come off the top rope and say, this is just going to be a 60 game season now. And to know now, or to know the next day, that the owners took advantage of the fact that fans were hopeful, on that presumption to leak stuff to friendly reporters who would report basically exactly what they were saying.

ALEX:  Right, very useful foot servants.

BOBBY:  And make it seem like they were making all of these big moves that they hadn’t yet felt comfortable making. But now all of a sudden, they’re going to move closer to the Union on the competitive balance tax. And now all of a sudden, they’re amenable to the draft lottery. And now all of a sudden, they’re going to meet somewhere in the middle, around 50 million on the pre-arbitration, bonus pool, all that stuff is coming out. And yet none of that stuff was really even passed across the table in that way. You know, I’m sure everyone has seen by now the Ross Stripling quote, where he said, “The owners treated us like we were dumb baseball players who got sleepy after midnight, and they started sneaking in all these things that we had not seen yet in bargaining ever. In this round of negotiations, they started sneaking across the table and proposals at 12:30am.” And that’s just like, insanely, insanely cynical behavior from the owners. Knowing that all of those details would be very hard for people to follow from the outside. And that they could control the tone with which those details first made it out into the world. And then the ripples that they would make among fans and media and interested parties, once they put that out there.

ALEX:  And they and they picked up where they left off the the next day, right? After kind of setting the table.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  For things to to look like they were kind of on the up and up. And to to to make it look like that MLB was bargaining in good faith, obviously, deal was not reached.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Players came out and and said this is nowhere near accurate. And the league as they are want to do came out and said no, this this is, this on the players. We we tried, really? And and he credit words, do you you kind of called it, right? That was, that was a it was a late–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –night tweet–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –that says–

BOBBY:  This is what a podcast is, give me my credit. Yes, yes. Yes.

ALEX:  –that said, Hey, maybe maybe we are being had with with this, with these leaks that are coming out. And–

BOBBY:  Look, if I’m going to be had at least I’m going to be had with my eyes open.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You know.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  I want to be had ball knowing I’m being happy.

ALEX:  Yes. And and again, like you, you know, you kind of mentioned I think that they expected and probably assumed rightly that a lot of fans would not care to dig into the the nitty gritty details of a deal. They would just see things got really close. MLB made a really great offer last night, that got much closer to the players. And then when things fall apart, it’s very easy for,  to think that maybe it was the players that didn’t come to the table, right? And this in his press conference.

BOBBY:  Yeah. In the state media–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –but they after

ALEX:  Yes. Yeah. Which ironically, they they did cut away, MLB Network did cut away before MLBPA’s press conference, which I’m not sure why. They they did that.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  They’re very good at both sides and things.

BOBBY:  When it’s actually in MLB is interesting. Uhm, yeah, we should talk about, maybe we should talk about Rob’s press conference because I didn’t watch it. So tell me about it actually.

ALEX:  Well, I I will, again, we are obviously talking about this days after it happened and so much of, much of what we’re currently discussing has already been dissected to bits by Twitter. But it still feels worthy to point out Rob’s somewhat jovial, demeanor–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –coming into the press conference, right? Uhm, he he got up there and was making jokes. He was–

BOBBY:  Kind of vibes.

ALEX:  –you know, right.

BOBBY:  He’s working on his hobby. 

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. He was he was laughing. I think it kind of people, people getting their mics set up and stuff.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It was a really interesting tone to strike. Given that you are the Commissioner of a sport who is about to announce its delay.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  I I think that like it really just underscored the kind of optics issue that a guy like Rob Manfred has, where while he is very much willing to kind of do the owner’s bidding and take a hardline stance. He doesn’t seem to really be able to read the room all that well.

BOBBY:  Yeah. It’s I mean, to be honest, like the way that I read that, I mean, of course, it’s terrible optics to watch the Commissioner of Baseball. Like the screenshot of it is–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –of him, like smiling, while up there to talk about the fact that we’re gonna miss the first, at least two series of the 2022 Major League Baseball season. But to me like, this is just Rob being Rob. Like this is this is him in his element, you know. Like, the last week is what he’s here for. Like rolling out this playbook where you negotiate back and forth and back and forth, and back and forth. Or rather, you hold out long enough so that the last day requires 15 back and forths between the Players Association, and the league. And then you put something across the table that you describe to your media puppets as your last best offer. They later came out the next day and said that that was not our last best offer, that that was their last offer for the night, no in that back and forth. Which is semantics, but you can’t say that that’s your last offer. Because that’s not a thing in collective bargaining. Like legally speaking, you can’t say we’re done giving offers because that would mean that you’re deadlocked. Which would mean they would have to go to a court to decide how to resolve this labor dispute, the strike or this lockout in this case. And you go back and forth that many times on the last night. And you put the ball, you push the ball forcefully into their court, and make them say no, to starting the season. So that you can disguise the fact that you’re the reason that the season is not starting, that you started this lockout. And what foot did we start this lockout on? It’s actually a defensive lockout, the Players Association is so radical, and they’re on the offensive, this time around. They are out for blood after the last two CBAs have not gone in their favor. And so rather than looking like the greedy billionaires that they are by locking everybody out of the sport of baseball, when they don’t really need to do that. They’re always making these subtle moves that make it seem like the players are the ones choosing the fate of how this goes. And that is just that’s not the way that labor negotiations works. Like the tone of labor negotiations and the intractability of labor negotiations is 98% of the time set by the capital side. Because they are the ones saying we don’t want to give you X, we want to take back more about why. And typically the union comes with their set of proposals first, and it’s on the capital side to determine where they’re going to start giving and where they’re going to hold their hard line. And baseball, they just hold their hard line on all on all clauses. And it actually is kind of like death negotiating for at these key moments. The deadline that by the way, MLB set to start the season on time and arbitrary deadline. The lockout which by the way, didn’t need to happen. It’s actually deft negotiating that on that final night. The last thing that happened was the players had to say no to a proposal.

ALEX:  Oh, absolutely!

BOBBY:  Even though the it’s like even though the proposal was nowhere near an actual completion of bargaining, they made it seem like it was. And so Rob Manfred comes out the next day of course he’s having the time of his fucking life. Like he just in his eye, he just won that negotiation. And he’s, what is he? He’s a labor lawyer, he is a corporate side labor lawyer. Nothing makes him happier than making his capital clients happy.

ALEX:  Right. And as we, as as as kind of trickled out, in the, in the days following a lot of people were talking about how the owners are actually probably fine with missing games through April. Because attendance numbers are usually lower in just due to weather in that month. And then also, you know, with with expanded playoffs kind of in the pipeline, there’s the opportunity that they’ll be able to recoup any losses that they do take in April, anyway.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But it was really, kind of quite a sight to see this being talked about, like so plainly that that really is just all posturing, right? This is the, this is not the owners saying, this is our last resort. Even we are, you know, we’re willing to do this, even though we know it’s gonna hurt us financially. It’s them saying, yeah, this doesn’t make a difference to us.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Which is really just a staggering thing to do, when not only is like the health of your sport, on the line.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And the relationship with your players, but also the livelihoods of 1000s of people who actually work the stadiums where the concessions, were at the parking lots. It it was just very illuminating, how much this sport and these negotiations are are simply just chess pieces to them.

BOBBY:  Yeah. And like, how insulated they’ve become, from reality. I mean, in a general sense, but specifically, the supposedly economic reality of what baseball was founded on. Like, why did baseball become big commerce? Why did baseball get an antitrust exemption? Why is it America’s Pastime? Because it’s exhibited baseball games for fans to come, watch. Now, when whoever invented the television, invented the television, that of course, changed the economic pie of baseball. It grew it, a ton. And then suddenly, it made the exhibition of baseball games. less important, though, still important, because not everybody had a TV, and then not everybody had national access to baseball. And not as much advertising money was pumping into the sport. Because of that. And now in the last 20 years, live television has really gone in the tank. And sports have declined a little bit from live TV from cord cutting, but not as much as everything else. So those ad dollars are even bigger towards sports now. Because they are a bigger portion of the pie, even if the pie of you know, traditional TV is smaller than it used to be. And the owners, through their own decisions have said, Great, that trend is great for our pockets. It’s bad for the game. But it’s great for our pockets. And for them to admit that and admit that going to baseball games, the people who are the most fanatical, and come out to the park, and create those lifelong connections with sports teams. That those people are less important than the people who buy cable but don’t even watch baseball. Because of how many dollars are directly routing into baseball teams, through those actions, those two disparate actions. I mean, it’s not surprising, because we’ve been talking about it on the show for 3 years now. But it is kind of like, the the safety is off. Like we’re no longer dealing with a group of rational people who care at all about the health of the sport. And I don’t know if we ever were really because I wasn’t doing this podcast in 1981. But I kind of get the sense that we maybe were for a second–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –there.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  You know, like, you read Lords of the Realm, you see that, yes, there was always about the money. Yes, it was always about commercializing the sport. Yes, it was always about billionaires trying to get their profit. But at least their profit was motivated on the fact that baseball was interesting and entertaining. Not on the fact that they can make money in spite of baseball.

ALEX:  Really not a good sign for your sport when anti union, hardliner, Jerry Reinsdorf is actually like, one of the more reasonable guys in the room, right? He has not been at least just according to kind of the folks familiar with the situation. He’s not been one of the more militant owners trying to crack down on the players, right? And I think that’s due in part because she has a relatively good baseball team right now.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  That I think he actually, you you know, that larger market teams, or at least teams that are in a good position right now, I think, are probably less inclined to want to delay the season. Because they actually have a vested interest in playing baseball. And it’s why it is the the Diamondbacks owners and the Tigers owners. Who are–

BOBBY:  The Tigers owners, one of the Chris Ilitch, one of the members of the Cespedes Family BBQ lease terrible owner.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah, we we might have to do some reshuffling there of the rankings.

BOBBY:  No, let them have him. We had a better squad.

ALEX:  We do, yeah.

BOBBY:  I don’t see Steve Cohen out here saying, Viva lockout, you know.

ALEX:  I know. I know. Yeah. Yeah, good thing we didn’t pick pick Bob Castellini [31:08].

BOBBY:  Never even considered him, never even other than the fact that I could get a couple of good jokes about wholesale produce out of him. Like he’d never even crossed my mind.

ALEX:  But like, is some of these negotiations are so unserious at this point, right? Like the–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –like some of the owners the you know, some of the aforementioned owners, Chris Ilitch, Bob Castellini, etc, actually thought that the MLB was giving too much in these proposals, right? They said–

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  –the luxury tax is actually too high already. You need to be giving less to them, right? Meanwhile, it it came–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –out that teams, some owners wanted to include meal money in counting towards the luxury tax. Which is like just such an asinine slap in the face–

BOBBY:  Yeah.ALEX:  –to the whole negotiatin

g process. I do not know how the players did not storm out of the room when they heard that, although they were pretty angry.

BOBBY:  I I really just think it’s because we’re dealing with a group of people who have had every roadblock to their quote, unquote, “success under capitalism”, removed from in their lifetime. Removed for them through legislation, through more legislation, through mostly legislation in the United States of America. Rewriting the tax code basically themselves, you know. Lobbying to elect whoever they want to elect that will be beneficial for quote, unquote, the aca- capital T, capital E, “The Economy”. Which really we know is actually just for the people who already have the wealth that makes up the economy.

ALEX:  Uhm.

BOBBY:  And they’re like, why should baseball be any different, they don’t think baseball should be any different. They think that they should be allowed to use any tool on their tool belt that they have ever used in their lives, to make as much money as possible. To help with the union, to help with the sport, to help with the product. And that’s why, I mean, maybe we can use this as an opportunity to talk a little bit about one of the proposals in MLB’s last best offer. Which was, that they would be able to implement rule changes with a shorter runway. Instead of having to communicate the rule change that they want to make a year ahead of time. Or rather, before the season starts, that they would be able to implement rule changes with 45 days of notice. So in theory, the rules could change on average, every, you know, couple months.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Turning the baseball calendar, which I mean, for a lot of reasons, is absurd and unnecessary. Mainly being that the players are the ones who actually play the game on the field. And I don’t totally understand why management should be the ones completely dictating rule changes that materially affect their ability to go out there and play and win and earn in the future. But it’s the type of proposal that just you have a hard time as a union member, understanding why that’s something that they need. And it hasn’t been truly articulated to you throughout the bargaining process that this is something they want and why it just comes up on the last day. And you’re like, So why were you waiting to roll this one out? Like why didn’t we get a proper explanation for why this is something that you need? Is is the thinking that like you need to be able to be more nimble. Like this is the tech world or something, like if someone is tweeting in April that the games are too slow. We need to put a shorter pitch clock by June. Like you can’t think about it on a year by year basis, you have to think about it on a month by month basis. And then when the players roundly rejected this, it suddenly was like a thing that MLB was like blustery about. They’re like mad that they can’t change the rules every 45 days. Like the players were just going to be like, Yeah, sure change the rules every 45 days.

ALEX:  It should be noted that they actually did offer that in their latest proposal.

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  Right, after this is a week later.

BOBBY:  Right. The players did [35:31]–

ALEX:  The players, the players offered this you they can change the pitch clock, they can make the bases bigger. Great, bigger, bigger bases, bigger ball next? Bigger gloves. And–

BOBBY:  [35:48]

ALEX:  –and shift restriction.

BOBBY:  I although the one thing that they did say no to was robot umpires.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Because that has a more direct, that could potentially have a more direct material effect on how certain types of players make money. And that that would be too dramatic of a change for a large class of players. We don’t know which class of players that is yet because we haven’t really seen like a long term experiment of what this would look like at the Major League Baseball level. But you could see it having a dramatic effect on pitchers or a dramatic effect on hitters or a dramatic effect on certain types of pitchers, or certain types of hitters. So players were like, No, you can’t do that within 45 days, we need more time for that. Are you okay with this? I mean, in general, like the like, are you okay, with the rule changes? We don’t need to litigate every single individual one. But at least for me, I’ll say I don’t like that this is part of collective bargaining. Although I don’t think it should be at the Commissioners complete and total discretion. But I don’t like that this is now something more for them to argue about. Like more for the owners to try to assert themselves into it doesn’t seem right to me.

ALEX:  Right. It’s another place where the players are going to have to make concessions, right? As they, as they did, as they came back and offered the the 45-day timeline. It does feel really weird that this sort of thing that deals directly in what is happening on the field, right? Seconds between pitches, and that sort of thing. Is, right, is negotiated in the contract of the terms of the player’s employment, right? Like it just feels like a, like a different conversation. And it was really weird to see this kind of come up at the very end. And I’m not sure why that was. Like is it to distract from the the strife over some of these more naughty, complicated subjects? Like everyone started talking about banning the shift in like, a week’s time. And I was like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –is, is this a plant? Like what, there was the, there was an article in The Athletic that quoted, Joey- Joey Gallo, right? Where he talks about his–

BOBBY:  Thumb coats for him.

ALEX:  Right. Yes, yeah. his distaste for the shift. And I don’t know–

BOBBY:  I love Joey but, yeah, of course. Of course you want the rule that’s going to help you.

ALEX:  Yes. It just felt weirdly coordinated–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –to me.

BOBBY:  Wow. Oh, wait, hold on. Are we about to open our third eyes right here?

ALEX:  That we are.

BOBBY:  Just a podcast with two guys sitting in the room opening the third eye. I thought Jeremy Frank put it about as tightly as you can in terms of what I feel about this issue. Which is that he tweeted, “MLB’s goal is to rightly increase balls in play, and reduce strikeouts. So there’s more action and diversity in the game. But banding the shift only really benefits left-handed sluggers who strikeout a lot.” Like that’s what I’m saying about Joey Gallo, I’m sorry, Joey Gallo, that at some point in the process, you were steered, or you chose to be an exclusively pull hitter with a flyball swing, so that you could access your AD grade raw power. That’s a choice you made. And then like halfway through your career, if they ban the shift, that seems lucky for you. But it’s not righteous that they banned the shift for you. There was nothing wrong with the shift.

ALEX:  We’ve been doing shift has been around. It’s not it was not invented in 2002. No, right? This has been around for like a century.

BOBBY:  This feels like if you banned double teaming Michael Jordan.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like oh, he’s so good. We have to double team him. And then Michael Jordan was like, Ah, I’m so good. I should be able to play one on one with everybody. Like that doesn’t make any–

ALEX:  Right. That is less impacting my ability to compete. And is not fair.

BOBBY:  I just don’t understand why Joey Gallo, great defender that he is, doesn’t also think it’s okay that the defense is choosing to do something that is beneficial to them. Like we’re playing a fucking game here we’re trying to win.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Not to mention, like, experiments with this have just been not super successful, right? Like, then you have to, this is now another rule that needs to be litigated in real time. Which we know that Major League Baseball historically is not great at litigating rules in real time. I do not want a replay review that is looking at where Didi Gregorious was positioned. I am sorry, I do not care.

BOBBY:  Wow, new anxiety unlocked. I didn’t even think about replay review as it relates to the shift ban. But now that’s what I’m gonna think about tonight when–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –I close my eyes and my head hits my pillow. That’s just ridiculous. You, this make it non-reviewable. And while we’re at it make every single thing non-reviewable. Can we talk about pitch clocks?

ALEX:  Sure.

BOBBY:  Just another in a long line of examples of MLB trying to galaxy brain solution, a problem that they created. I feel like the blame for game length should be 70% league and game structure and 30% player. Like 30% player, Pedro Báez, you could go faster, like you could. A lot of guys could work quicker. But the glor- like the glorification of like Mark Buehrle, quick pitching, I don’t really think that every player should be like my Mark Buehrle. Like I think he was pretty unique. And the fact that he worked so quickly works to his advantage, but it certainly wasn’t a requirement of the position to work that quickly. And never has been–

ALEX:  Right. Well–

BOBBY:  –in the baseball history.

ALEX:  –and and we didn’t have fans saying, Boy, a Mark Buehrle game is just much easier for me to watch. Then, another–

BOBBY:  I think I had some fans like, who were like, I thought it was like entertaining to watch him work that quickly?

ALEX:  Oh, for sure.

BOBBY:  Yes. You know, like, I remember Johan Santana, working pretty quickly and admiring that about him. But at the same time, primarily, the reason that games are long, is commercials.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Like, that’s, that’s what really lengthens the game the most. I think that games would not feel that long even if they took as long as they do now, or 10 minutes less, or 15 minutes less or whatever. If the outcomes of each at bat, were not what they are currently structured as. Like if it wasn’t so many strikeouts, and walks and more balls were being put in play. I do think that it, that three hours would feel like three hours and three hours would not feel like the five hours that it currently feels like right now. I I could be proven wrong about this, but I fail to see how implementing a pitch clock is going to fundamentally change anyone’s relationship to baseball. And I’m feeling a little bit like Groundhog Day talking to you about this. Because I remember you saying that in 2018.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Like, probably verbatim honestly.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I’m probably just repeating a memory that I have with you.

ALEX:  I mean, and and at this point in my existence as a baseball fan, I can absolutely say with the strongest possible conviction that I I don’t care if there’s a pitch clock. If they implement one, kudos!

BOBBY:  This is just for the listeners at home. This is a truly Alex Bazeley experience. I can say the most possible conviction you can put on something is that you don’t care about it.

ALEX:  I do not care, right? And like it may speed up games slightly and it may not.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And either way, I am not going to notice. So–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –go for it, I guess. I mean, like it’s kind of like a sure, I I don’t think, I don’t think anything is really going to change but it’s not necessarily going to hurt my viewing experience. And like you said if it there are certainly some pitchers to which this will be applied more heavily than others. And that’s, that’s great. But again, it just strikes me as this technocratic approach that we’ve talked about that Rob Manfred takes to the game. I’m not meant for it alone but him and his cohort of lawyers? Like it feel it really does feel like it kind of like a focus grouped response, right? What is what is the way that we can shave off the most time while impacting the game the least.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And so they said, Make pitchers go a little faster.

BOBBY:  If they spent 1/10 of the energy on making the game accessible to people under the age of 18 that they have on trying to implement robot umpires and pitch clocks. We would literally would not be sitting here having this conversation.

ALEX:  We we’ve been talking about pitch clocks for like five years.

BOBBY:  Yeah, just fucking shit or get off the pod. Rob.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Like just fucking do the pitch clock. I don’t even care. I’m actually pro-pitch clock now so we can stop fucking talking about whether we’re gonna get a pitch clock. I’m done with it.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I feel the same way about the Universal DH. I’m actually you know what, they should just do it now. So that I don’t have to keep getting on here on this fucking soapbox, sitting in a room with you, with 10 moving boxes and suitcases sitting around me. 5 days after I moved all of my belongings 3000 miles, talking about whether a pitcher has to throw a pitch within 14 seconds, 19 seconds or an unlimited amount of time. It’s fucking asinine, honestly. And I didn’t even think I was gonna get that man when I was joking at the beginning of the podcast about how we were talking about rotators. I didn’t even think I was gonna get this worked up.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Maybe that’s just the energy of being back in the same room.

ALEX:  Can I just say, this is not related whatsoever.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I did enjoy my dinner tonight, so good.

ALEX:  Sushi?

BOBBY:  Yeah, so your sandwich looks pretty good. Alex and I ate dinner tonight together. And he just had something completely different than what the rest of us are having. And I love that for you as I roll. You knew what you wanted. And you went out and got it. Like, if you think about it, your turkey sandwich was sort of sort of like the pitch clock to Rob.

ALEX:  It just, it really was.

BOBBY:  I wish he would just go to the bodega and get the fuckin’ [47:04], get it dude, it’s right there down the street.

ALEX:  I just want to say that I love that they were having these negotiations at a baseball stadium, you know. Like MLB has cushy offices in New York,–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –in New Jersey–

BOBBY:  I was protesting outside [47:25] one hear you were.

ALEX:  Yeah, I was for different reason. But you know, pulling doing double duty.

BOBBY:  Yep!

ALEX:  I I just really, it brought me joy, thinking about a lot of players and lawyers, like, I don’t know, huddled in a locker room/ Or like a club? Like this is they were in Jupiter, Florida, right? Which is obviously where some of MLBs spring training sites are. And they’re–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –they’ve they’ve plenty of property down there. And and then just led to these beautifully bizarre, like photos of Rob Manfred walking across just like an asphalt.

BOBBY:  Yeah. A lot of still camera like landscape shots–

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  –of Rob, like walking into the frame and then passing out of the frame.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  So good work by everybody involved.

ALEX:  I I really–

BOBBY:  [48:19]

ALEX:  –appreciated it. Like I felt like I was there. The scene was set.

BOBBY:  This is what we got into journalism for, actually. Should we have gone down there? Like, did we mess up?

ALEX:  I mean, probably, yeah.

BOBBY:  Okay. Well, I don’t really think it’s worth getting very deep into the details of the proposal that the Players Association made today.

ALEX:  20- immediately after spending 20 minutes talking about pitch clocks.

BOBBY:  Right. Essentially, they kept the CBT thresholds exactly the same. They moved to down $5 million dollars on the pre-arbitration bonus pool. They, as Alex said, agreed to three of the rule changes but not the robot umpires. And I think they met in the middle on the draft lottery at 5?

ALEX:  I think they’re it, I think they’re a pick apart at the PA is at 6–

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  MLB at 5.

BOBBY:  Great. So it’d be five and a half six.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  But I think more interestingly coming out of that MLBs company line was that the Players Association went backwards. Which, according to them, is only the case because of what the Players Association allegedly verbally talked about across the table in the marathon February 28th negotiating session. I’ll read you the quote from Glenn Kaplan, who is, I don’t know, how do I describe Glenn? He used to do PR for the Hillary Clinton campaign and Major League Baseball hired him to, I guess, run interference in the media on how CBA negotiations are going. I think that that’s probably as tight of a way I can describe it to listeners without spending too much time researching who Glenn Kaplan- Kaplan is and what motivates him. He said, “On some issues, they even went backwards. Simply put, we are deadlocked. We will try to figure out how to respond. But nothing in this proposal makes it easy.” So, Glenn Kaplan, to The Athletics, Evan Drellich, is suggesting that the MLB Players Association violated federal labor law on two accounts today. Do you think that the MLB Players Association violated federal labor law on two counts today?

ALEX:  I mean, he said they did.

BOBBY:  Well, when you put it like that, I think they probably did.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I think I actually think they did.

ALEX:  This is not the first time this sort of thing has really come up either, right? The MLB in the past has kind of kind of tried to make the sly suggestion that maybe the players were violating labor law. And I actually thought it was interesting at Rob’s press conference, he went out of his way to acknowledge there’s a, there’s a legal definition of impasse. And that is, that is not the place that they are at. So Robert Manfred is aware of how these discussions should be going and how they should be talked about.

BOBBY:  I think that because this is so precise, because this is such a legal process. Like we sometimes conflate the concept of some things with what that thing is, in practice. Like Glenn Kaplan saying, they even went backwards. It’s like, you went backwards from where? Where you thought that they were going to go on last Tuesday night? Or what they actually put across the table. Because if they went backwards from what they put across the table, you’re better off just filing that with the National Labor Relations Board.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And waiting for a court to decide whether they actually went backwards. Two and a half years from now, have fun doing that, we’ll see what a judge thinks. I seriously doubt that a very well-funded union who has been doing this professionally with a ton of resources for a very long time actually, engaged in regressive bargaining. That seems unlikely to me. They have a lot of high paid lawyers to make sure that they don’t do exactly that. And then the deadlocked part a part of it. Like you said, Rob, Rob acknowledged that impasse is a legal term. That means neither side will put another proposal across the table. And it needs to be essentially neutrally arbitrated. And that is also not where they’re at. Because MLB did not say we’re not giving another proposal back to the one that the Players Association give today. So it is really kind of like a sinister thing that they’re doing by trotting out this guy to suggest that they’re engaging in these bad faith tactics that are literally illegal if they were doing it. So that’s how you know that not happening. But most people don’t know that, so like, they’re banking on the fact that people will see that and think that they’re just like being shitheads.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You know, not that they’re actually like violating the law.

ALEX:  The lockout has done many things. And one of the the most defining things I think, is it has really unmasked the contempt for fans and their intelligence. Because we are seeing this constantly, that they are not only disparaging the players in the media, which is to be expected, right? I am not expecting them to come out and say that things are all golden and rosy. But they are making the assumption that fans are either too uninformed or simply uninterested in the actual facts of the situation. And what that means from a labor perspective. Because they keep trotting out there and doing shit like this.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I, I appreciate their candidness let me just say that.

BOBBY:  They’re making our job kind of easy. I thought this was a good opportunity to pivot really quickly to like two or three questions that we got in the last week. Because one of them, one that we got from Cal, in a DM, actually was asking kind of about this exact thing, which Cal said, Could you guys talk a little bit about what it means to negotiate quote, unquote, “negotiate in bad faith”? And if any of MLB’s behavior could constitute is that they said one thing that’s specifically on their mind is the league pushing back the deadline, and then sneaking stuff in the fine print. So what Ross Stripling was talking about in his quote to Sportsnet, Canada. Uhh, yeah, I mean, I can talk a little bit about, like, what negotiating in bad faith really means, like, obviously, I’m not an actual lawyer. But I had a lot of experience with like, the urge to say something is in bad faith, versus actually being able to legally call it bad faith and pursue that legal outcome. Because I think like bad faith actors is an often used phrase, in our country and in our society. Because there are plenty of bad faith actors who are not on the level with how they’re behaving, how they’re acting.

ALEX:  Including quite often Major League Baseball.

BOBBY:  Yes, most often, the 30 Major League Baseball owners, in in our case, for our purposes. But negotiating in bad faith means that you are, like lying in your negotiation, you know. Like, like, if you were obscuring the reality of why you were putting something across the table. So say, for example, in collective bargaining, the owners said, in this proposal, we are going to propose to get rid of free agency. Because within the next five years, we plan on contracting six teams. Because they’re not making enough money. And these are the six teams that we’re going to contract. And you said that at the table, and strong armed players into agreeing to get rid of their free agency, because you were planning on contracting six teams. If you then did not contract those six teams, or did not show why you didn’t end up contracting those six teams, then yeah, you could probably be considered as negotiating in bad faith. Or if you’re putting something across the table, that you don’t have the sign off as a low as the negotiator that you don’t have the sign off from your bosses. Like from the owners to actually agree to, that’s considered negotiating in bad faith. So it’s, it’s impossible for me to know whether they are actually negotiating–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in bad faith, but it is a much more narrow term than I think most people who throw it around on Twitter, really intended to be like, they are bad faith people. And they, but they are not not unfortunately, not negotiating in bad faith.

ALEX:  Right. Like, you may be able to say, like, boy, it really seems like the league is kind of user kind of bad faith moves on they’re [57:59]. Like like lowercase b- bad, lowercase f- faith moves, you know.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  But but, but there’s like a real meaning behind those words, capital B, Bad. If I need to say it again, capital F, Faith.

BOBBY:  Right. Like, it’s the difference between me saying to you, Jeff Bezos is stealing his employees wages. And me thi- thinking that from a qualitative perspective, versus if he’s actually not paying his employees, overtime, that those are actually stolen wage.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And he will actually lose that in the court of law.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Like that is the very fine difference between what it means to be a bad faith person and what it means to be negotiating in bad faith.

ALEX:  Right. And unfortunately, like not being in the room, we have no way of knowing. Even if we think their negotiating tactics are skeevy and morally reprehensible, or whatever, whatever you want to slap on–

BOBBY:  Keep going.

ALEX:  –that boy.

BOBBY:  Pull out the list, of adjectives.

ALEX:  Thesaurus.com

BOBBY:  That you write down to describe how negotiations are going. Yeah, so it’s very hard. And the kicker to all of this is that they could be negotiating in bad faith. And the league could file that grievance with the National Labor Relations Board. And you know what? They could even fucking win. And we wouldn’t know about it for like, three years.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That’s the trouble with society. Like you have to wait a really long time. Wait for people in power to be held to account.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And typically, people in power know, or it can pay someone who knows how to get right up to the line and save the most money by doing that. All right, let’s let’s do one more question. This is a question that we got an email from Ian. And then I think we also got asked this on Twitter as well. I apologize, if you asked us this, and I did not name you on the podcast. Ian wants to know, now that the players rejected, quote unquote, “the owners last best offer that evening”. And I guess this probably would have been a better question to answer right after it happened. Because the players have since proposed, since put a proposal across the table. But Ian wanted to know, basically, does this mean that because they rejected that, that they can then start from scratch on all of the negotiations that happened that day? Like, essentially, did those happen in a vacuum? And because they didn’t come to a deal, does all that progress get undone? Or are they, he asks, are they still bound legally, to those concessions? The concessions that the Players Association made that day in terms of coming down on the competitive balance tax coming down on the pre-arbitration, bonus pool. All of those things. The answer to that question is yes, they are legally bound to those concessions. They, anything that gets put across the table, anything that gets set at the table promised at the table. Those are legally binding things. And that’s part of the reason why it’s so hard to get either side to move in these negotiations. Because once you do, there is no going back, you’re writing in permanent ink. And you can’t undo any of that stuff. Unless you’re taking your kind of total economic package down so much in another place, that you’re adding a little bit back here. Which even still might be considered progressive, might be considered what MLB is accusing the Players Association of doing. And so this process is much more like trench warfare than it is like the idyllic Donald Trump art of the deal. You just change it all at the last minute, you know, you’re like you try to convince someone that this is the better deal. Like it’s not, it’s not like that. It’s not the game theory, negotiating pokery style that I think a lot of people imagine it to be that you’re legally bound to every move that you make in a contract proposal.

ALEX:  Isn’t Rob Manfred, supposed to be like Commissioner deals. Like this was kind of his thing is like–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –he’s good at the table. Am I wrong in thinking that?

BOBBY:  See, I don’t know how he got that persona. He was a dutiful servant.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  But he wasn’t like a wizard.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  He won at the table. I think it’s fair to say, because for whatever reason, external climate, external factors, the composition of the Players Association. Because they were willing to sign off on those things, that they, that they put across the table. I don’t think that he like Jedi mind trick them–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –into signing some shit ass deal. And now the Players Association has suddenly learned the force and realized what was going on the whole time. I think that there were probably a lot of factors as to why those deals were not quite as beneficial to the players. One of those factors being it was really hard to foresee analytics having this big of a revolution on the role of young players in baseball.

ALEX:  Right. Well, and also like, there was maybe a little bit of faith arguably too much faith put in owners to be good faith actors. You could say, Ray is like–

BOBBY:  Oh my God, you’re you’re you’re part of the problem right now.

ALEX:  But like, that’s kind of my my understanding, right? Is like they didn’t feel the need to crack down so much because they kind of assumed that owners weren’t going to be so Craven and like brazenly craven.

BOBBY:  Right. Like our business is booming. Why don’t we all just share a little bit and spoiled.

ALEX:  Right. Wow, ru- rude awakening.

BOBBY:  Wow. Uhm, does that seem quaint?

ALEX:  You know, we–

BOBBY:  If this is booming, why don’t we just stab the sport in the back and push the players off a cliff while we still can.

ALEX:  We all, we all get radicalized on our own timelines.

BOBBY:  What was the thing that radicalized you? When it came to baseball?

ALEX:  Like radicalized in the sense of like where we are right now? You and I having this conversation about being militantly pro player?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Probably Twitter, I think.

BOBBY:  Twitter is real life, this just him?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. I mean, I think I find it–

BOBBY:  Twitter is the new knocking on doors.

ALEX:  You know what, changing minds and hearts one suite at a time. I think it was actually pretty instrumental to find a community of people online who were willing to be more critical of the sport and think a little more critically like from a political perspective, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  More than just a like, I want to, I want to talk about whether or not Aaron Judge is good or not, you know. Like, and I don’t know why that he is my just like go to example of a baseball player, you know?

BOBBY:  What does that say?

ALEX:  What does that say about the sport?

BOBBY:  Wow! ‘Cuz he’s the face of baseball.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  You’re admitting it right, live on the pod.

ALEX:  [1:05:25] the same we, this is–

BOBBY:  One New York [1:05:27]–

ALEX:  –Mike Trout came out and said, we stand together.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s right. Mike Trout said we’re gonna start pushing Rob Manfred’s cars into the fucking river.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That feels like a pretty good place to end podcast.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Uhhh, where can people reach out. 785-422-58881, tipping_pitches on Twitter, tippingpitchespod@gmail.com. If you have more questions about the CBA, if you have questions about minor league baseball as it as its opening day approaches. Because it will not be affected by the Major League Baseball lockout. Please don’t hesitate to write or call in. There are a bunch of questions that we didn’t have time to get to today. We just wanted to kind of let it rip first podcast back in personalities.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  First of many.

ALEX:  The vibes are already flowing. I mean, I can just tell, I, before we get out of here.

BOBBY:  We’re in the deal zone. Did you see this in the NBA? Trade deadline?

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  With the James Harden to the Sixers trade?

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  Brian Windhorst described the negotiations between the Brooklyn Nets and the Philadelphia 76ers front office as, it is said to be that they are in the deal zone for [1:06:41]

ALEX:  Ohhh, my goodness.

BOBBY:  They were like, he was like it went from it probably won’t happen at the deadline, they’ll probably have to wait for the next offseason to it’s probably going to happen, they’re in the deal zone. So your [1:06:53] ran the po- the pod zone?

ALEX:  I I’m using–

BOBBY:  [1:06:56]

ALEX:  –I’m using that every single episode.

BOBBY:  Feels like something that Alex Rodriguez might actually be saying like in this moment right–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –now. I’m in the deal–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –zone.

ALEX:  Yes. Okay. Close this deal, for me. Joey Gallo, fittingly, is trending on Twitter. And I I don’t know if you have seen that, the the Twitter trends now offer a little bit of context, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Sometimes when–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –when it’s not obvious, like about what the actual trend is about?

BOBBY:  Uh-huh.

ALEX:  There are employees for Twitter who have to write up a usually a like a brief, like less than one sentence summary. You know, maybe just a clause.

BOBBY:  I feel like we could do that job.

ALEX:  I think we could do.

BOBBY:  Specifically for baseball.

ALEX:  Well, here is, let me read you the description for Joey Gallo.

BOBBY:  I’m ready to get right now.

ALEX:  Fans discuss Yankees outfielder Joey Gallo’s past comments criticizing shifting it term–

BOBBY:  You can tell that they write this for canceled culture things a lot.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Past comments criticizing shifting. Okay, keep going.

ALEX:  A term used to describe the situational defensive realignment of fielders away from their traditional starting points.

BOBBY:  That’s pretty accurate.

ALEX:  It is, it was a very succinct explanation.

BOBBY:  With that one straight from Google.

ALEX:  After MLB networks, Jon Heyman reported that a player’s union agreed to allow the league to ban shifts in ongoing negotiations for the next collective bargaining agreement. I don’t even think that would fit in a tweet.

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  I think that’s probably longer than 240 characters–

BOBBY:  That–

ALEX:  Or 280 [1:08:31]

BOBBY:  –is longer than some Bob Nightengale articles that I’ve read.

ALEX:  Right. Like I, what I appreciate is that almost, almost every single name or idea mentioned in this. Like needed some sort of exposition to someone–

BOBBY:  Another clause.

ALEX:  –who is not–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –who’s not familiar with baseball, right? So you probably don’t know who Joey Gallo is. So we need to–

BOBBY:  Sure shit on who fucking Jon Heyman is?

ALEX:  Right. Exactly.

BOBBY:  And the first exist- existence have to know who Jon Heyman is?

ALEX:  I think he really is. Yes, I, frankly, they would have done people a service by just kind of [1:09:06]–

BOBBY:  Not yet. Just just, yeah. Okay, thank you for that closing note, which I don’t understand. I guess it was full circle.

ALEX:  Right. As you know, you you power up Twitter and you see that there’s a paragraph in the trending topics and you just have–

BOBBY:  You have to read that paragraph.

ALEX:  You have to read the paragraph.

BOBBY:  Thanks, everybody for listening. We will be back next week.

[1:09:27]

[Music]

[1:09:27]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodMarch 7, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:mlb, MLB CBA, MLB lockout, Podcast, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on MLB Is In the No-Deal Zone	
For Sale: Opening Day, Never Played

Alex and Bobby talk about unionizing the fans and getting in on labor negotiations. Then they review the week in CBA nonstarters and remark on the apparent tone shift among fans and media ahead of the league’s self-imposed deadline. Finally, they answer a few questions about minor leaguer NIL rules, the MLBPA’s strategies, baseball road trips, and more.

Songs featured in this episode:

Wilco — “Too Far Apart” • Talking Heads — “Road To Nowhere” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I’d like to start the podcast by reading an ad that I took out, in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel this past week. I took out this ad and I thought that it would really, it would really go over well. So can I, can I read it to you? I don’t know if you saw it. You don’t get the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel delivered anymore. You’re all on digital.

ALEX:  Right. I–

BOBBY:  That’s right.

ALEX:  –do I have their digital subscription. So, so yeah, please graced us with this, whatever it is that you had to say.

BOBBY:  This is an open letter from the National Fans Union to MLB Commissioner Robert Manfred. “Commissioner Robert D Manfred, on December 2, 2020, you published an open letter to fans about the Major League Baseball lockout. Obviously, you never intended for the fans to respond, but we accept your invitation to the conversation. Fans don’t need one way declarations about your cancellation of the sport we love. If you’re going to collectively bargain over how to best divvy up our money. What you really wants to be heard and respected. We want a seat at the table.” You like the ad copies so far, any notes?

ALEX:  No, I think it’s great. It’s a, it’s very on message.

BOBBY:  Uhm, uh-hmm.

ALEX:  It’s pointed at all the right individuals, I think and I love the you know, the call to to action of sorts, right? That, you know, I mean, it’s it’s encouraging fans to to rise up and–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –band together, take matters into their own hands.

BOBBY:  Right. This is populism at work.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  “Without us decisions will be made with only the billionaire owners and millionaire players in mind. Not the fans who support makes the entire enterprise possible. With us, MLB has an opportunity to change the conversation and turn this labor dispute into an historic calling in of the group most often disregarded. It’s time for fans to be part of the conversation over how our dollars should be spent, and how our favorite pastimes treat us. To all fans of MLB or professional sports who agree that fans have been ignored for too long, please join us. Our strength lies in our numbers. It’s time for fans to be more than spectators.”

ALEX:  Bravo.

BOBBY:  Let’s get–

ALEX:  Bravo!

BOBBY:  –that seat at the table, Alex. We’re storming in. We have Eric Adams and his SWAT team to bust the door down.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And we’re going to get our seat at the table, if it kills us. That’s how collective bargaining works. You just get an ad and then you ask for a seat at the table. And then Congress goes right to amending federal labor laws. That’s, as far as I understand it, that’s, that’s the process.

ALEX:  Well, like, Yeah. I think that if you determine that this deal may somehow impact you and in any way impact the how you consume baseball games or anything like that, you’re therefore entitled to–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –to a seat at the table, right? That’s why, that’s why I sit in on Cheez-Its shareholder meetings, right? Because like I have a vested interest in the quality of the product. That’s just it.

BOBBY:  How many boxes of Cheez-Its would you say that you go through in one month?

ALEX:  In a month?

BOBBY:  In a month.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Like if you go to the store every Sunday, do you need to buy yourself a new Cheez-It box every time?

ALEX:  Usually, yes, I’d say I–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –probably, it’s probably three, maybe maybe two or three boxes a month.

BOBBY:  I think that that gets you a seat at the table.

ALEX:  I think so too.

BOBBY:  Frankly, I think that gets you a seat at the board.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, I’m giving them what? Like, like 150 bucks every year?

BOBBY:  A 150 hard earned dollars.

ALEX:  That’s basically union dues at this point.

BOBBY:  That’s like 10 hours of work at what the minimum wage should be.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Before Tax. I mean, come on. You’re committing to the things you care about, just like my National Fans Union. That went over swimmingly on Twitch.

ALEX:  When I initially read about this, I thought it was the Nationals Fan Union.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And I was first very impressed that they were, you know, taking is, deciding to take a stand for all baseball fans. And also slightly puzzled over why they chose the Milwaukee–

BOBBY:  Journal Sentinel.

ALEX:  –Journal Sentinel as their, as their venue of choice for this message. But I would, I would respect it either way.

BOBBY:  I thought you were just gonna say you were surprised that there was enough Nationals Fans to form a union.

ALEX:  Wow.

BOBBY:  These days. No, I’m sorry. I think we have some Nationals fans listen to the pod. It’s just friendly, and at least digs and at least shots being taken. Not even worth it because there’s not going to be any NL East when there’s no Major League Baseball. Which is the pace that we’re going at here.

ALEX:  Hmm.

BOBBY:  As baseball Twitter’s friend Richard Staff put in our replies one time, I very distinctly remember him saying it like this. As it relates to MLB, and the MLBPA, negotiating, he said, “How does this affect me the main character of reality?” And that’s what the ad reminded me of.

ALEX:  It is, I mean, perusing their website is, yeah, I mean, it is very slick. It’s, it’s smart. You know, it’s a, it’s very, it’s very direct.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  They clearly understand that baseball is about the fans, ultimately–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –right. In fact, they, they, they talk about the, you know, these negotiations over how to split up the financial pie. And they asked the question of whose pie is it really? And the answer is, it’s our pie, Bobby, it’s the fans pie–

BOBBY:  Bogged–

ALEX:  –down to the last bite.

BOBBY:  –communist meme. Our pie, down to the last slice. Really special stuff made even more special by the fact that Craig Calcaterra, within hours, found out that the law firm that incorporated their LLC is also a law firm that represents like 15 MLB teams. So it’s definitely just a sigh up.

ALEX:  Right. It’s, it’s, this is smart, you know, MLB is getting a little more savvy, in their, in their place. You know, they’re realizing they they can’t, they can’t count on the usual channels to kind of sow discord. Or they can’t, they can’t count on the, on the usual channels to, to kind of inflame the the masses. So they’re kind of having to sow discord among the ranks, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  By by infiltrating us, the, the fan.

BOBBY:  They’re cutting straight from the the typical mainstream national baseball columnist because that person has been, you know, their power has been degraded in society. They’re cutting directly to taking out ads in physical newspapers. Thinking that that’s going to get directly to the people that they need to change hearts and minds. Oh, and also, don’t forget that they have the Associated Press on their side now. So everybody who’s reading a newspaper across the land is going to be on this side of the owners.

ALEX:  I don’t know about you, but I have joined their mailing list so that I can keep up to date with any actions.

BOBBY:  The National–

ALEX:  [7:48]

BOBBY:  –Fans Union?

ALEX:  The National Fans Union, yeah.

BOBBY:  Did you, did you actually put your email in there?

ALEX:  Yes, it did.

BOBBY:  Oh, this is why I love you. Okay, we’re gonna talk about the latest in collective bargaining between Major League Baseball, and the Major League Baseball Players Association. We’re going to do some voicemails about that topic, and some other topics at the end of the pod. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[8:19]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  I can’t wait until your email address is like harvested because you signed up for the National Fans Union.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, I–

BOBBY:  The only thing that is ever going to pop up on your phone as calls from NYU to donate and emails from the National Fans Union–

ALEX:  I still get one time they called me like three times in one night. Like [8:44]–

BOBBY:  They call me–

ALEX:  –minding their call.

BOBBY:  –they’re calling me right now. Like, I I know the number 212-998.

ALEX:  It’s so bad. Yeah, no, it’ll get harvested. But the good thing is that my email has already been harvested to death. You know, like, it’s so overloaded that like at this point, I feel like they’re getting diminishing returns. Like you can’t–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –really package up my email while they mark people because everyone already has my email.

BOBBY:  That’s just supply and demand.

ALEX:  Exactly. You know, should I create a an email users union, right? Because I have–

BOBBY:  Yup.

ALEX:  –I have all the power as the person who–

BOBBY:  Take back your labor, take back space in your inbox.

ALEX:  Yeah. Exactly.

BOBBY:  I thought you were gonna say should you create a blockchain for your email address. Like an NFT market for giving out your email address.

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  You know, Alex’ email address is actually an NFT now. If you know what his email address is, you’re not allowed to send emails to it unless you’ve purchased it on the blockchain.

ALEX:  Right. This is how, this is how NFT’s work. You can NFT an email.

BOBBY:  Have you take NFT as screenshots?

ALEX:  Yes, it’s a screenshot of the email. Yes, it is 300 pixels by 1200 pixels.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  It degrades in quality if you try to blow it up.

BOBBY:  [9:59]

ALEX:  [9:59] everyone up.

BOBBY:  What’s the font?

ALEX:  Georgia?

BOBBY:  Yes. I love Georgia. The New York Times is very own Alex Bazeley, Georgia.

ALEX:  That’s right, been a great lady.

BOBBY:  We’re just talking about fonts. We’re talking about fonts. And we’re not talking about collective bargaining. Should we talk about collective bargaining?

ALEX:  What is there to talk about? We could talk about fonts and probably end up in the same place.

BOBBY:  I don’t know where to begin. Because for most of this offseason, you and I were talking about one, maybe two sessions of collective bargaining. And now they’ve met every day for the past seven days. We’re sitting here to record this Sunday night, it’s 9pm. Eastern time. They just finished meeting a couple hours ago. And we are kind of getting some trickling information about what those meetings entailed. And I think there are varying levels of interest in the nuggets that are coming out right now. Like we just got an Evan Drellich tweet about how MLB is trying to tie getting rid of compensation picks or compensatory picks, for free agents who leave. They’re trying to tie that, which is something to Union wants. They’re trying to tie that to the steeper competitive balance tax rates. Now, this is all very confusing stuff. It’s, it’s been very confusing to try to follow along, as both sides have, even for us, as both sides have put stuff across the table, and it comes out on like a three hour time delay from five different Twitter accounts. And it’s like slightly, it’s always like slightly different the wording of it. And there’s always depending on what reporter you’re reading it from, there’s like Jessie Rogers, there’s Jeff Passan, usually comes off the top rope with like one or two tweets at the end of the night. Evan Drellich with a tick tock of what’s going on. He’s pretty like baseline, you know, then you got Heyman’s–

ALEX:  Nuts and bolts, yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s, he’s nuts and bolts. He’s just getting the facts out there. Then you got your Heyman who’s like, the league, put this across, everybody’s psyched about it. Everybody’s really happy, they’re all gonna go get dinner tonight. That’s Heyman’s view on the whole situation. And then you have Nightingale who’s like, they will meet tomorrow. And it has no other information at all. So it’s, it’s been a very kind of dizzying experience to follow along with what’s being proposed. I want to start here, Alex, Saturday morning, the MLB Players Association, who was their turn to put together a proposal and send it back. And I thought, they made some pretty big concessions. They went from 100% of your 3 players being arbitration eligible. That’s where they started this whole bargaining process, since the lockout began. They are now all the way back down to 35%, which is only 13% higher than Super Two eligibility is that now or in the previous CBA. They compromised on a little bit further on the draft lottery structure that has been much discussed in the last week or two. Which is basically saying, you know, they wanted if the top 8 teams get the same draft lottery odds. So that it’s less beneficial to tank and have the worst record and get the best pick. And they signaled to the, to the owners, that there was a kind of a meeting in the middle structure to the deal. And they came out of that deal, it was like a 15-minute proposal. Everybody was tweeting about it, saying they just offered this package deal to the owners. And just like an hour or two goes by, and it’s like MLB didn’t react well, to this package offer. And I was excited in that interim period. Because I was like, clearly the two sides, some someone needed to push the ball down the hill and start some momentum. And I thought, though, I was frustrated that it had to be the players to do it. Because it’s always the labor side that does things like that in this, in these negotiations. And seemingly moving a lot, you know, like knocking that third year arbitration eligibility all the way down to 35%. From where they were most recently at 75%. That’s a big move, like that’s a a good dozen, a couple dozen players not being arbitration eligible every year now. And then to immediately just have it stonewalled. And then for the owners next response to be, no, no, no, no, no on all of those things. And we’ll move $1 million on the CBT and keep the same penalties. That’s when I Saturday night, as I was kind of catching up on my Evan Drellich reading, my Evan Drellich tweet reading. That’s when I was like, yeah, man, we’re missing a a good chunk of games in the Major League Baseball regular season. Like would, there’s no, there’s no shot here, we’re done.

ALEX:  Yeah, it I mean, we’ve been headed towards this for a while. Certainly the last 72 hours have given no indication that anything’s gonna happen. Before MLBs self-imposed deadline of Monday. Is I think you mentioned we’re recording this on a Sunday. So we, you know, we’re kind of, we have to to look into our crystal balls, a little bit about, about what might happen. But it it does feel like that the the end of every day kind of comes with some sort of admission, that very little progress is made. You know, they talked on some, on some, on some minor points. And there were concessions made in certain areas, but on the big issues, they remain far apart. They’ll be back in the morning to try again. And that’s kind of what it’s, you know, it’s been our little Groundhog Day for the last week. I mean, it seems it’s, this is the understatement of the year, but it seems very obvious that the owners are not actually going to move significantly in any of these areas, right? Like the, like the luxury tax. And I don’t know, when that changes. Like, again, I I I maybe naively assumed that the thought of losing games, which would negatively impact their bottom line would actually be enough of a threat for them, right? Given how much they’ve tried pour over the last couple of years.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And that doesn’t seem to be the case. And honestly, it’s, it’s possible that there is as much internal strife among the owner side, as there is strife between the players and the owners, right? Because there are obviously different interests on the league’s side. Small market owners and and large market owners, very well could be differing–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –on some of these major issues.

BOBBY:  Right, I I forgot to mention the players did drop their, their proposal on changing revenue sharing too. Which you just reminded me of the fact that there are differences between small market and large market owners. And we just don’t know about any of that, like we don’t, we don’t hear reporting on any of that stuff, they very effectively leak just that they are aligned, and that they don’t go for the players proposals. That’s the only thing that ever comes out of that side.

ALEX:  It is kind of remarkable. Even when the league is not really moving at all, on any of these issues. They still managed to piss off the players with how they do it, you know. Like their their tact, their strategy at the table is often just so callous. That, you know, at one point this weekend, it was reported that the players considered walking out on negotiations, right? And and they may not even return on on Sunday. And and that was, you know, I’m sure they were just feeling feels at the moment, right? But but this is a result of the owners trying to tie some of these past agreed upon issues. Like the universal DH, like the loft draft lottery, tie them to expand the playoffs and a a shortened period of time in which they can institute rule changes, right? This is completely out of nowhere. So like, where do we go? Where do we go from here?

BOBBY:  I I, it’s a fascinating question. And, you know, I kind of wish that we had tomorrow to inform us on how we answer that question. Because, you know, I think as people are listening to this on Monday, or maybe you’re catching up with it on Tuesday, or Wednesday, or whatever, and you know, more than we do as we record it. But I think, I wonder what like, I genuinely wonder what Manfred is going to come out and say. Because they, they will discuss they will bargain. They want negotiate tomorrow. And then they will have to basically say, we’re pushing the season back here, but we’re gonna miss at least the first week of games. Or this deadline was fraudulent all along. And I doubt that they’re going to say that because that’ll make them look a little bit weak and a little bit like they were posturing the entire time. Which is a bad look, especially given that, I think that we will remember this as the week that the owners lost a lot of people who were still hanging on to the idea that this was both sides fault. They completely lost a lot of media people. And I think it was because of death by 1000 cuts, basically, you had the Braves Liberty Media financial file, filings. Which came out, showed that they had a $104 million profit margin in 2021. A year after losing $53 million in 2020, allegedly. And these are all like, obviously have to take these with a grain of salt. They are reported to the SEC, but they are very general. So we don’t know quite how they’re accounting for expenses and revenue and what counts for all of those things. But to know that they made it back doubled their, “biblical losses” from 2020. Just goes to show that this is all for nothing like we’re we’re we’re playing on a slanted playing field and the players moved. Like they blinked on Saturday and the owners were like, great, we’re not going to do anything at all. And I think that a lot of people, I think a lot of people realize that this [20:30]. I think a lot of people are fed up with the fact that MLB didn’t propose anything for 43 days. They know that the Braves are making over $100 million in profit before depreciation. They, we know that the players are aligned and saying we want to play. This is not that radical of what we’re asking for anymore. And to be honest, I feel like there was a, there was a, a real valley and peak in the millionaires versus billionaires discourse in the past week. Because we saw players coming out and directly saying, this is not millionaires versus billionaires. We saw Walker Buehler’s tweets, which he eventually deleted, which is dumb. Because he should have kept them up because they were right. But we saw him tweeting things like this is not millionaires versus billionaires. This is workers versus owners. We’re actually doing the thing that you guys like. We’re actually going out there and playing this. And not that I think that every single fan like had a complete 180 enlightenment moment in this past week about how capitalism has wrapped its tentacles around baseball. But I do, I don’t know, maybe it’s just wishful thinking. But I felt a little bit of a downshift. Like even if, even if you read Ken Rosenthal’s column from Monday, and then you read Ken Rosenthal’s column from Saturday, he still threw in a couple nuggets, a couple bones to the league on Monday. And the one that he wrote yesterday, he was, he was literally using league in front of everything, to make sure to not mince words about whose fault all of this was.

ALEX:  Right. He, I I paraphrasing him, I believe he said, The league gave the players a collective middle finger. Which is, which is not wrong, but maybe not the kind of thing we have been conditioned to see from someone like Ken Rosenthal, of his ilk. I think you’re right about the tone shift a little bit. Because it has been so, so blatant, so brazen, the way in which owners have acted with kind of increasing stonewalling. And almost almost a sense of apathy towards the negotiations, right? When it seems clear that like, the players are actually invested, and, and emotional out there. So I’m, like, actually care about getting a job done, right? They’ve been able to kind of telegraph that messaging to the public. And the owners really haven’t, you know, you don’t hear from them. Which I think [22:59], any other time in the year. I think that that that serves them well, right? The owners keep their place kind of up in their castle on the hill. And they don’t have to, have to talk about how they care about baseball or not, it’s it’s fine. But like this–

BOBBY:  We should, we should bargain that into the next CBA. Once a month, every owner has to come out and give a State of the Union on why they actually like baseball.

ALEX:  I mean, wouldn’t it be something to hear owners try and talk about, like, how their team is actually doing?

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  You know–

BOBBY:  Or little public embarrassment for the owners.

ALEX:  Can we start like Cole’s calling Bob Castellini and asking him about, like, Sonny Gray’s projected FIP of next year or something like that–

BOBBY:  I don’t know what to care–

ALEX:  –you know.

BOBBY:  –the market is down. I got bigger–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –fish to fry here, Alex.

ALEX:  Yeah, it just, it just seems like I think people all of a sudden see that the owners are not serious, right? And the fact they are effectively unable to come out and say that they are, I think tells you that much Rob Manfred is proving to be a pretty useless mouthpiece, at least in the last week or two, right? I think fans have rightfully called him on a lot of his bullshit. So it feels like they’re losing tricks.

BOBBY:  They lost Buster Olney, at least for a part of this week. I don’t know if you saw this, but I I’ll just read it off. So I don’t, so I don’t add my own slant to what Buster was saying. He’s really a lot of clubs, staffers and agents strongly believe a draft lottery will have only a slight impact on the MLB’s tanking problem. So this is the draft lottery that I was talking about where the, the union originally proposed that the 8 worst teams would have equal likelihood in the lottery or you know, slightly various, slightly variant likelihood of getting the top pick. Versus just it going in straight order of how bad you were in the previous season. Buster tweeted, “What it really needed they believe is a more direct mechanism to compel teams to spend on payroll. Rather than pocketing the money and accept the losing.” I say Buster, welcome aboard, I don’t know why you needed to talk to a lot of clubs, staffers and agents to realize that. But that’s what everybody has been saying all along that, of course teams could, teams in the bottom third, especially, but really teams in the bottom half or two thirds of payroll. Of course, they could be spending much closer to the luxury tax. That’s why they have revenue sharing. And that’s why we set the tax of what we set the tax at. And then Buster in reply to someone else. So just under the current system tanking makes sense, because if you slash payroll, and aim to be awful than at the very least, you make a lot of money. Which is more important to some of these teams than competing. Now–

ALEX:  Yup! That’s it.

BOBBY:  –at the risk of drawing too much from a Buster Olney reply tweet. I do think that when, when like a Buster Olney type who very often finds himself carrying water for owners just by nature, of his view on the industry, having been so deeply embedded in it for so long. And who he talks to and who he gets his very obviously gets his tips from. When he finds himself logicing him his way into saying something like that. Which is, it was just a repeated union talking point and a repeated Tipping Pitches talking point. I think the owners like it’s reasonable to assume that the owners have themselves a PR problem. Like there are 1000s of people canceling MLB TV subscriptions right now. It’s a, it’s a total shitstorm.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, I, and it’s tough because the the owners have actually received some of these concessions from players, right? Without really needing to make any movement on their own. Which is, which is tough, right? Because you’ve already, that already kind of shifts the playing field a little bit. It, you know, the players give up a a tiny bit of their leverage in that and you know, the owners can very well kind of, you know, effectively let the, let the players negotiate against themselves, right? And, and hope that their proposals are are whittled down, due to sheer attrition over the next few weeks, right? And then, and then they can actually come to the table and start and start talking and say, okay, we’ll, we’ll be serious about this now. Now that, now that we’ve made you guys, like cut your proposals in half. So like, it’s not like nothing that the owners are doing is working, but like, you know, in their favor. But it does seem like they’re, they’re losing in the court of public opinion. Maybe maybe more than they were, say a month ago, certainly more than they were three months ago.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I just don’t think they care about that. And I think that that’s why we’re dealing with a kind of really explosive, labor, sports, sports labor situation here. Because I think that the MLB owners are uniquely positioned in that they’re not as powerful relative to their workforce, as the NFL owners are. And they are more powerful relative to their workforce than the NBA owners are, relative to the starpower of their workforce. I’ll say you could probably debate that last point. But they think that they can’t be had at the table. And they’re so far removed from the court of public opinion, which we just spent the last 15 to 20 minutes talking about how they’re now losing in the court of public opinion. I think it’d be years before they ever even realize that. Which is why I think that this negotiation has not gone the way a lot of people in media the way that you and I hoped that it might have. Because I don’t think that they actually have anyone holding their feet to the fire. None of them were in the room in 1994-1995, when this went wrong when this went haywire, and they lost a whole season, or not a whole season, but when they lost second half of a season and playoffs postseason. None of them remember a time when baseball had to actually be a thing that made them money so that they could pay their bills. And so they’re just so insulated from any kind of fan pressure, any kind of respect for the players, and the the other people on the other side of the table. And even though I’m not in the room, it’s so easy to tell that you put a $1 million increase to your CBT across the table on the same day that the players make objectively, the largest moves that they’ve made of this whole process. Like that, that just tells me, there’s no respect, there’s no desire to keep this going. It’s like a complete and total contempt for anyone else in the room. Anyone else in the industry, anyone else who’s involved in baseball or has a vested interest in baseball. The owners just have a complete total contempt for them.

ALEX:  Yeah, they really are are uninterested in the greater health and well being of the game, right? Because you could argue that having opening day is like a relatively important thing for the sport of baseball to have. Especially when you’re worried about waning popularity, and worried about losing gate receipts. Like, you’d think that would, that self imposed threat would light a fire under the raft asses? Or maybe you won’t that or maybe you wouldn’t? I’m like, maybe you’re naive to think that, right? Like–

BOBBY:  Yeah, yeah, it’s, it’s, we’re kind of at throw your hands up hours here with what with what’s going on. Because there’s still so much left to be done. And there’s not enough time to do it. At the deadline that they said, you know, it’s kind of like when you have a paper due at midnight, it’s like 1115, you still have like, 10 pages to write? Do you just do you stop entirely? And do you kind of reset and try to ask your teacher for an extension? Or do you work right up to 11:59? Like, it’s that same sort of brain melting, catch 22 that we’re trying to describe and absorb as fans, as you and I are fans too. I wonder, do you think that we’re going to be coming together on Wednesday or Thursday of this week to record another supplementary pod? Because Rob Manfred has come out and said, No, we’re not bargaining anymore, we’re gonna miss the whole season, or Rob Manfred has come out and said, we just struck a deal. Or do you think that we’re just gonna keep getting drip, drip, drip, drip, drip, and we’ll just wait until next Monday to record?

ALEX:  If if there, if there is no movement tomorrow, I don’t really see why there would be any significant movement in like a day or two later, right? Like if they, if they have already conceded that they are going to be missing games and accepted that reality, then–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –then it’s kind of like why did you, you know, why would you miss the deadline otherwise, right? You know, if you were just going to make a deal a couple days later. So something tells me, we might be back here next week, kind of throwing our hands up in similar fashion.

BOBBY:  Well, I hope that this is at least an entertaining product for people who are listening to us throw our hands up via audio form. Uhm, we’re gonna take a quick break. And when we come back, we’ll answer some more questions about the events of the last week.

[32:42]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, Alex, ready to answer some questions from the lovely friends of the pod?

ALEX:  I am ready. And they usually ask ones that are, that are more fun for me to answer than, than yours at the beginning of the podcast would usually just kind of throw me into a bit of an existential tailspin.

BOBBY:  I like to, you know, knock you off your feet a little bit right as we’re starting the pod just to kind of get a dazed and confused Alex for the first 30 minutes. So that you can bring it all the way home by the end once the sort of concussive symptoms have worn off.

ALEX:  Right, I’d love to listen to myself at the beginning of the podcast versus at the end of the podcast.

BOBBY:  Uhm, this first question comes from Devin. Devin asks, “Would be curious to hear your thoughts on whether it even makes sense for the PA to keep negotiating at this point, given the situation?” You want to take a stab at this? Does it make, does it make sense? Is it required? I mean, it does make sense to keep negotiating, it doesn’t make sense to negotiate against yourself. Like I thought the way that you described that, like 15 minutes ago, Alex, was was right in that, I think that the owners think that things are going well. Like I think that they would rehire Rob Manfred if they had to. You know, like if this was a normal situation, and he was your lawyer, I think that the next case that the owners had, that they would rehire him. Because the PA has already dropped a lot of the, “radical things” that you said that you are never going to accept. And now if the owner start to move, now, they’re only moving from a point that the PA was halfway at, versus their full ask. So if you’re the PA, does it make sense from a game theory perspective? No. But this is why collective bargaining agreements are so hard to negotiate. And when, and truly be satisfied about when you’re a worker under capitalism, is because the ownership side, the management side, has the ability to just sit there and wait and say, no, we don’t want to give you that. No, we don’t want to give you that. No, we don’t want to give you that. And what are you going to say? Your your only power in this situation is withhold your labor. So the players can say no, we’re not going to propose anything more. And this lockout can go to a stalemate. And we can send this to the courts to end this. But then we don’t get baseball for potentially like two years. And these guys are baseball players. They want to play baseball.

ALEX:  Yeah, I yeah, I would wonder how much the players would actually really want to miss. Like, I can’t imagine them, I mean, I can’t imagine them wanting to miss any games. But I can’t imagine them wanting to see this bleed over into 2023 or beyond. Like that would I mean, you want to talk about catastrophic for the sport. That would, that would be brutal. And I think that the players ultimately recognize that, right? Recognize the the the best interests of the sport, so to speak, and are kind of negotiating on that principle. But you know, it might be nice for them to throw the middle finger back every once in a while.

BOBBY:  Well, to me, it’s so frustrating that the worker side always has to think about what it will look like, to the public, you know? Like that the players have to think about what this will mean for the long term health of the game. Because they are the ones associated with the game. Which is the entire reason period as to why they should be getting whatever they want, when it comes to baseball. And yet, they’re not because the structure of all industry is ridiculous. That’s one thing. The other thing is, this is why it’s so frustrating that we even have a lockout to begin with. Because it didn’t need to be this way. Like we could have just been playing under the previous CBA. If ultimately where we’re gonna end up landing is somewhere near the previous CBA, then it wasn’t that urgent of an issue for the owners to lock the players out and set that tone, and then wait 43 days to even respond and give a proposal. Like we could have just been chugging along as slowly as we are right now. And it wouldn’t have felt so doomsday, it wouldn’t have been so frustrating because everybody could have been preparing for a season like normal. And the owners are were afraid of doing that, because they were afraid that the players would call a strike vote. But you’re only afraid of the players calling a strike vote. If you’re doing actions that frustrate them to the point that they’re going to call a strike vote like they did in 1994. If you have the ability to stop that from happening, but you can’t trust yourself, like you can’t trust yourself in collective bargaining negotiations, to not piss the other side off enough to call a strike midway through a season that they are playing and want to be playing.

ALEX:  I respect that they’re self-aware–

BOBBY:  I guess so.

ALEX:  –[37:39]

BOBBY:  Like that, that’s what’s so frustrating to me about this question and, and whether or not the PA should be continuing to get proposals back and forth. Because yeah, they’re by nature, how how these things work. You eventually bargain against what you want. Like, that that’s how it works. It sucks, but that’s what happens most of the time.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  All right, let’s go to voicemail.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hey, Alex and Bobby. this is Izzy, longtime listener. Just want to say at first like you guys really have the right podcast for the moment mixing ba–baseball and labor. Totally the right moment. Maybe there should be more lockouts. Anyway, or call about two things. The first is blitz senses there have been for you guys about solidary around players. Like they’re all in a union, they’re good negotiating their bargaining. Do you think players have taken something away from this and applying it to their feelings of other unions? Or politics generally? I don’t know. I think I’ve seen a few people on social media, but it’s not like I’m seeing Max Scherzer stating his support for striking workers or organizing workers at Starbucks. So I don’t know. Love your thoughts on that. The second piece is, how do you feel about baseball players on politics generally? Given the demographics of especially the white players of being good old southern boys. They don’t really see like, do I really want to know what they’re thinking? I’m not sure. Like you get your Trevor Bauer and I’ve had enough of him so do you really want more? Anyway, love your guys thoughts on this love your show and can’t wait to listen more? Okay. Bye!

ALEX:  Great question. Izzy, thank you for calling in. I think baseball players politics generally suck. That’s kind of, that’s kind of a summation of my my thoughts on them. But I do think there’s been a shift not even just over the course of the lockout, but over the course of the last two years. That has radicalized players at least on their own front, right? And we have maybe have not seen it extended too often to other industries to, to solidarity outside of the baseball world. But it’s not completely non -existent. There are players who are showing solidarity with, you know, food service workers and that sort of thing at at a baseball stadium. Frankly, I think that the last couple years have probably done much more to radicalize minor leaguers than major leaguers. Because they’re, the the conditions that they live in. And what’s at stake for them is much more dire, is much closer in line with how the average American is treated by their boss, or or at least, I think most people can maybe see themselves in their shoes a little bit more. But I don’t I, I don’t think we’re gonna see baseball players like canvassing for Bernie in 2020. You know, like, I’m not sure we’re there yet.

BOBBY:  I don’t, I don’t know how much the second question matters. Like, I I agree that we don’t want to hear players thoughts on electoral politics, but I don’t most of the time, don’t think electoral politics or even change anything. Like most days, if you asked me, I wouldn’t be like a baseball player saying that he supports this candidate in the House race is going to change society.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I’ll say like, when you’re in a, when you’re in a union together, it doesn’t really matter what your fellow union mates politics are, you’re supposed to stand together no matter what. Like you’re united by the fact that you are all workers together no matter what. And I think that in some respects, I think that the the baseball union is like a pretty good example of that. I don’t know how many unions I can think of where there are like that many disparate world experiences that leads you into that specific of a union, you know. Like people from all over the entire world coming together in a union. And in a, in a weird one at that, which doesn’t have any real correlation to any other part of society, I think is one of the reasons why like, a lot of labor people give a shit about the baseball. MLB Players Association and the the history of it and how it came to be, and how they took back a lot of power from an incredibly powerful group of owners. Now, to to the first question, that is, he asks, I think that it sucks that baseball players, and the Players Association doesn’t do more when it comes to the labor movement. Because to be frank, they have a ton of money, and a huge public platform. And if it were normalized, to talk about their involvement as labor in American society, more than just every six years, when we’re talking about a collective bargaining negotiation, I think that that would not only like, improve the likelihood that people treated them that way, as opposed to just treating them as spoiled, rich millionaires who play a kids game, every time we talk about these things. But I think that it would just make it more likely that people would know this dynamic when they see it in the real world. And I don’t think that as a union, they wield their collective power in that way enough. I think that, like you said, they’re the same guys who, in a one off way, go out of their way to give a shit about striking workers when it affects baseball or not. And it’s it’s Sean Doolittle and it’s Collin McHugh and it’s Jerry Blevins. And it’s all of those same guys that we have talked about on this show ad nauseum. And I think that, given how much the union has done for players in the long run, I think that they could probably ask players to, like, show more support for other other unions, who are having public fights within the labor movement. But what are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? Not every union cares about the people who aren’t as well off as them as much as [44:10]–

ALEX:  Right, yeah, I mean, yeah, this is, this is where you kind of these two competing ideas bump up against each other, right? Which is that baseball players are in their industry, they are the labor. And so in that sense, they are the organizing of themselves and and negotiating and bargaining is a, is a political act. And also, many of them do make millions of dollars and by and large, are probably somewhat disconnected from with what’s going on in the rest of the country, right? So like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  [44:47]

BOBBY:  Do I wish that this is Screen Actors Guild would come out and support retail workers? Yeah. Do I wish that, you know, the Directors Guild would support Starbucks union? Like I–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –wish a lot of things about a lot of unions.

ALEX:  Yeah. I think there’s, I think there’s limits to you know, with any any rich person’s politics. Like they’re, you know, they’ll let you down eventually it’s okay. That’s fine.

BOBBY:  Okay, uh, since you brought up minor leaguers we got, we got a question about minor leaguers.

VOICEMAIL 2:  Hello, this is newly happy first time caller, recent first time listener. I’d sort of dove into a little bit back when you had to CBA ABCs. And I saw a recommendation. You’ve been nothing but great. I had a question about unionizing the minors when it comes to actually practically getting it done. I know that MLB has the big exemption, monopoly, which is being challenged. And I know that’s being challenged by minor league teams. But I don’t know if that actually interferes at all with minor league players for assembling a and organizing as a union. I’m just confused, I don’t know exactly how that works. I’m interested to find out. Thank you so much. Bye!

BOBBY:  Yeah, so this is a tough question. So actually full, so full transparency. Alex and I are planning a podcast in the near to medium future. Talking about what it would look like for minor leaguers to unionize. And this will be one of the questions, one of the questions being how much can MLB do to push back? They’ve already done so much. They’ve already crushed so many young man’s hopes and dreams about making it comfortably in the minor leagues and then eventually on to Major League Baseball. The antitrust exemption does not prevent minor leaguers from unionizing. I I would guess that it gives them, it gives MLB and MLB clubs a little bit more leeway in what they can do to collectively prevent minor leaguers from forming that union, you know, in terms of their union busting strategies. But there’s nothing about the ruling and the antitrust exemption that full stop prevents minor leaguers from forming a union. Though I would guess that, on the flip side of that conversation, if the antitrust exemption did get taken away, I could see a world where like that creates the momentum for minor leaguers to then be like MLB is reeling. MLB is on the ropes. Let’s try to form this union now. While, while this tidal wave of public opinion, is kind of against these colluding, Major League Baseball teams.

ALEX:  Well and it matters with regard to minor league pay–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –as well, right? Because, because they have this antitrust exemption that 30 teams can come together and, and legally collude against minor leaguers, right? And say, we’re gonna set the salary the wages for you guys. We’ve all agreed on this, you don’t have a say in it, you, you know, we’re gonna do whatever we can to make sure exempt from minimum wage laws, etc. And if that antitrust exemption is gone, there are far more legal pathways to actually making a claim that the owners are are paying the minor leaguers illegally. They’re–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –they’re fix, that they’re fixing wages in a way that is just criminal. So that feels like the, the the big part for me, right? And it would I, you know, as you said, maybe not directly impacted the push for a union. But it would certainly open up ways for the minor leaguers to actually address some of these issues that so far they’re unable to do outside of a union.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think that you would have, if the antitrust exemption was gone tomorrow, I think that you would have far more, a much quicker push for a class action lawsuits defending minor league players than you would for like a real true unionization push. But when you have a class action lawsuit, and everybody is involved in the same legal process, it does create pathways for you to meet the proper people that could eventually help you organize into a union. Like one of the biggest challenges for the minor leaguers is guys don’t spend a lot of time in the same place in the minor leagues. They get shuffled around a lot. There’s a lot of pressure to conform. You have a lot of like barriers to entry to the conversation of what it takes to unionize. You’re not always in the same place with all of the people who would be unionized alongside you. And it just becomes a huge logistical challenge. And if if the antitrust exemption went away tomorrow, like I said, and every single minor leaguers on suddenly getting a bunch of emails from whoever organizes a class action lawsuit against Major League Baseball. Hey, why don’t we just all Reply All and say you guys want to form a union? It obviously would not go that easily, but that’s the kind of thing that the interest exemption gives cover to MLB clubs to do. To just kind of suppress a lot of that activity. Okay, should we go to the next question?

ALEX:  Yeah.

VOICEMAIL 3:  Hi, guys. This is Brian from New Jersey. I had a quick question about some sort of minor league player compensation that I hadn’t really heard discussed anywhere. And it has to do with with licensing. I know that you know, for the major leaguers in MLBPA, handles licensing. And wondering if there is a equivalent for minor league players. I know that a couple of years ago, there was some stories about how MLB: The Show was able to use the likenesses of minor league players in the game without having to compensate them. And I’m kind of wondering about merchants x now because I’ve noticed that my local affiliate the the Somerset Patriots are the Yankees, they’re selling shirts, sherseys for some, you know, notable prospects, and I’m wondering, are they getting paid for it? So I’ve done a little bit of a searching and it couldn’t find any information on my own, so I was hoping maybe you might be able to sell me in. Thanks so much. Keep up the good work.

BOBBY:  Brian, I’m glad you asked. What a fantastic question that illustrates the total and immoral hypocrisy of Major League Baseball owners. So it’s a good question. Because the Players Association for major leaguers negotiates their likeness deals with places like MLB: The Show, or out of the park baseball, any of these places where you see a player’s name, image, jersey, all of that used or sold, or disseminated, or all of those other legal terms. For minor leaguers, they are forced to forfeit the rights to their name, image and likeness when they execute their uniform player contract. So the UPC is the contract that every minor leaguer has to sign that says the club owns your rights for seven years, they only have to pay you $1,500 a month for your first level. Like all of these things that specify all of the heinous ways that clubs treat minor leaguers. And there’s a subsection of that contract that says pictures of player. And in that it details here, I’ll read you the first sentence very quickly. “Player agrees beginning with the day that this minor, this minor league uniform player contract is executed that photographs, whether still or action and motion pictures may be taken. And any form of telecasts made of the player individually or with others, at such time replaces as club may designate and agrees that all rights they’re in shall be long to club that and that they may be used, reproduced or otherwise disseminated or published by club directly or indirectly, for any purpose in any manner, at any time. And you are also not allowed to use your own name image and likeness in association with the club to make money.” So you can’t without the permission of the club. You can’t be in a local commercial, as a member of the minor league team, or as a prospect and make money off of that. Does that make sense? You give up all of your rights.

ALEX:  Yes. [53:38]–

BOBBY:  In short, you give–

ALEX:  [53:39]

BOBBY:  –every single right that you should have. That even NCAA players app now.

ALEX:  This obviously led to the demise of EA Sports, NCAA football games few years ago, because of the the nasty world of college sports. But this sounds about right. I would have been shocked if my only players actually got compensated not for for this, absolutely not.

BOBBY:  Every time if you buy a minor league jersey with a player’s name. They’re not making that money.

ALEX:  Yeah. And there’s nothing, there’s you can’t really do anything about that, right? Like you’re not, you can’t negotiate your way out of that sort of thing.

BOBBY:  No, because they’re never going to give that right to one guy here and there. Because then that will give them a legal precedent to take that out of a contract. Well, hey, you’re giving it to that guy. Why don’t you give it to me? And you’ll have more and more minor leaguers, pushing back on signing the uniform player contract or that part of the Union uniform player contract more agents will be able to say, well, Vlad Guerrero Jr. has that taken out of his uniform player contract. The reason that hits a uniform player contract that everybody has to sign at higher low prospect doesn’t matter. And then the way that they skirt around that and the reason that some players who have much more leverage are still okay with signing that is they just give them huge signing bonuses. It’s nice, just throw cash at the problem because they have the cash. They just don’t want to evenly distribute it, so that they can save a little more of it.

ALEX:  If you’re Michael Jordan, you can negotiate out of the uniform player contract. That’s what he did in 1994.

BOBBY:  Wait. So we did a whole episode about that? About Michael Jordan not signing a uniform player contract.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, I don’t know all of the details on it. But I suppose that’s all the more reason to–

BOBBY:  I didn’t mean [55:29]–

ALEX:  [55:29]

BOBBY:  –we start that whole episode right now. You’re allowed to read it about, before we do that. I think that’d be fun.

ALEX:  I agree. We’re, you know, we’re we’re kind of teasing a lot of ideas here on the podcast as well. A lot of talks about episodes coming down the pipeline–

BOBBY:  We’re calling Dibs. We’re calling Dibs on the, nobody–

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  –else do that. The best thing about doing a niche labor baseball podcast is that nobody steals your ideas. Just nobody has put in the time to build up an audience about of people who care about stuff like this. Like our wonderful listeners. Thank you, Brian for calling and asking about that. And hearing that terrible, awful, depressing answer. Just time for maybe two-ish more. Two more questions?

VOICEMAIL 4:  Hi, boys. Jack, I was curious how you guys feel about how Max Scherzer slowly becoming a labor leader? And if anything, an iconic labor leader? Yes, basically, I just want to hear your thoughts on that. Thanks, boys. Stay pos.

BOBBY:  Max Scherzer labor leader, Alex. We also, we also got a question from Michael on Twitter. Does Mad Max scare the owners? What do you make of Matt–Max Scherzer. the new Jimmy Hoffa?

ALEX:  About as intimidating albeit in different ways.

BOBBY:  I hope he doesn’t go out like Jimmy. Got three more years to play for the Mets, right? 

ALEX:  Yes. That’s, that’s the priority.

BOBBY:  Steve Cohen brings them to a house in North Jersey or whatever. I don’t remember actually where they brought Jimmy Hoffa.

ALEX:  I think you could maybe make a case to, to kind of, you know, New York area, Mob members that Max Scherzer is, in fact vital to the New York Mets.

BOBBY:  Oh, yes!

ALEX:  And so if they could at least wait three years, and then do the hit like that, you know. There’s kind of, there’s some larger interests at stake here.

BOBBY:  Jesus Christ. Okay. Can we answer the question? We’re getting too far off the rails. Please keep Max Scherzer [57:35] at all times. He seems great.

ALEX:  I don’t know. I know very little about Scherzer. And how he’s engaged with this process. He’s one of the less active players on Twitter, although he has come out with a few banger tweets in the last few weeks, That seem to just kind of represent the broader sentiment among players right now. It’s hard to say how, how militant or hardline he is, though, honestly. In part because like, I mean, you saw the car he drove up in, right? Like, can he really effectively negotiate driving a car that expensive driving? Driving a Porsche? Like–

BOBBY:  Okay, here it is. Here’s the part of the podcast where we talk about the Associated Press. Specifying Max Scherzer was driving a Porsche, and not mentioning any other cars driven to the complex in Arizona. Very rare for us to get an example of media bias, that clean cut. Usually, you have to try a little harder. Like this is the one that they would put across the table at an Adam Penenberg’s journalism 101, Alex. That reference was for you and you alone.

ALEX:  Shattered Glass, be still my heart.

BOBBY:  Wow. If anyone listening has seen Shattered Glass, please write in tippingpitchespod@gmail.com. So we could talk about it.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  No spoilers, though. Only for the people who have seen it or are gonna go the extra mile to write into our email. We got stories.

ALEX:  Oh, I hope, I hope Max is, is a good guy to have in the room. He’s certainly intimidating, right? He may be more of the muscle, than the, than the brains behind the operation, but who knows?

BOBBY:  Scherzer is just an interesting leader of the Players Association. If we’re to bring this actually back to the question at hand here not about his model of Porsche and the Associated Press. Associated Presses, various interests in that model and price point and what it means for society. Because he’s clearly like, baseball has been good to him. You know, like he’s signed the megadeal. He has the mega-agent, the mega deal paid off, he just signed the second megadeal. The very rare second megadeal that we’ve been talking about how owners never give that out anymore. And he’s earned every single penny, he he was the best bargain imaginable for the Nationals for what he did for that franchise. And even delivering in the postseason and helping them win the World Series. Like every single penny was so so so worth it. Because he never talks about it, or because he doesn’t is not that vocal. And because he doesn’t tweet about it that often. I wonder what he would say, if you asked him like, when did you want to become so involved in the union? Like at what point did you realize this is something that you could wield your power within this game for the betterment of younger players. Because it it very clearly is like, I want to help the next guy have the same path that I had. And I’m seeing that window close, faster and faster and faster year over year. And I think that that sucks. Now Scherzer avoided arbitration when he was with the Tigers. They settled for 3.75, 6.75 and then 15.25. That was after he had already won the Cy Young with the tighter–with the Tigers. But even still, like knowing that you’re winning the Cy Young while you’re not even a free agent yet. I think for a lot of guys, that has to be pretty radicalizing. Now to the second question from from Twitter, to the owner sphere, Max Scherzer. If they don’t, I’ll have what they’re having. Because I would certainly fear him in a small confined room, making him angry. But who knows, maybe it’s just something that he accesses on the mound. But I think that that a lot of people have gotten a lot of good overworked Twitter jokes off about how Mad Max Scherzer should just throttle them until they give the Players Association what they want.

ALEX:  Again, I’m not trying to make a deal with him.

BOBBY:  Steve Cohen just did it. Just give him what he wants. And then we can all move on and everyone will be happy.

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  Steve, get in the room, bro. Get in the room. Make a deal.

ALEX:  Yeah, stop letting Dick Mon–Monfort take the mic.

BOBBY:  Clearly. Clearly, there’s one owner who doesn’t want to make a deal. It’s the guy who traded every star he’s ever had. And then forgot to trade Trevor Story and is still not going to give him a deal. So the guy who paid money to give away Nolan Arenado, that’s not the guy who’s gonna make the deal. Steve Cohen, on the other hand, the guy who lost you know, $50 million on a GameStop short. He’s willing to just let the margins be what they are.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, that’s part of deal making.

BOBBY:  Exactly. You win some you lose some.

ALEX:  Yeah. Do you have any more questions for us?

BOBBY:  There are a few more questions. But we’re we’re running out of time here to get into the weeds on some of these questions. So I’ll I’ll end with a non-labor question.

ALEX:  Non-Labor. Wow. On Tipping Pitches?  All right, I need to–

BOBBY:  I missed the lockout.

ALEX:  –switch off that part of my brain.

BOBBY:  Switch, switch on the himbo baseball fan part of your brain. This comes from Turn a Pair Baseball Podcast. This is Turn a Pair Chris. He says, “If I gave you an RV for seven days, what college or pro teams are you visiting?” Great question, Chris. A question that requires Alex to think about United States geography. We don’t get enough of those.

ALEX:  Yeah, Kastrina here firing up Google Maps just so I can, I can know where, where Des Moines, Iowa is in in relation to other major league teams. It’s a struggle over here. Do you have it? Do you have an answer? Do you, while I, while I do my research.

BOBBY:  So I have been known to throw a a touch of shade at college baseball in the past. I don’t remember if I’ve ever done that on the podcast. But I have certainly done that. When you have been watching college baseball in our shared living space. Or when Michael Bauman has been texting me at midnight being like turn this college baseball game on. To the point where he just doesn’t send those messages and he knows not to send those messages anymore. Uhm, but in the last couple of years, I’ve tried to expand my baseball palette so that I am not completely at the whim of Major League Baseball for obvious reasons for that for the last 86 minutes of this podcast, we we know why I’ve done that? I still think given carte blanche to just take off for a week. Drive, see something that is completely a different experience. I actually think that I would want to try to take a run through the South East, the SEC Softball slate because softball is such a different both TV but I think in person experience too. Just a different speed, slightly different incentive structure for how to play the game. So there’s like more slap hitting more bunting. I think that the pitchers are much bigger storylines in softball than in baseball now as they’re sort of been like the denigration of the starting pitcher, which is not really the case in softball. And I think that I would take a run through the SCC, as much as I could get done in seven days. Because many of the best college softball teams are in the SCC, and it just seems like a riot to be down there. For one of those games.

ALEX:  Yeah, that would be a blast. And there are certainly some powerhouse college baseball teams that you can hit as well.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Give me, give me a Florida doubleheader.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly. Go see what Vandy is up to. I think they may end up doing a trip down the East Coast.

BOBBY:  Coastal elite Alex strikes again, just refuses to go to the heartland.

ALEX:  Right, which is yeah, it’s not it’s not super surprising.

BOBBY:  He’s given a dream scenario, the RV and everything. Seven days, they still won’t leave the Coast.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Yep. No, I mean, I, there’s just, I think a great array of baseball that you can find. I would love to go to the Cape Cod League.

BOBBY:  Yeah. We were like–

ALEX:  And–

BOBBY:  –eight feet away from that last summer. I didn’t go but–

ALEX:  Yes, yes, we were. Yeah. Uh-hmm. And not to mention there are plenty of good baseball programs in and around the area. You know, as long as I’m getting out of New York City itself, in which there’s literally no baseball to watch right now.

BOBBY:  Wow. Well, New York City burnout on the pod?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Are you gonna read a think piece for the Atlantic?

ALEX:  Why I’m leaving New York? Because it doesn’t have enough college baseball teams.

BOBBY:  Why I’m leaving New York in an RV to see the Cape Cod League?

ALEX:  Right to see the Durham Bulls.

BOBBY:  Yeah, yeah.

ALEX:  Yeah, I want to check out like North Carolina baseball.

BOBBY:  Yeah, we should go see the Durham Bulls this year. That’d be fun.

ALEX:  That ,that would be fun.

BOBBY:  You you and I have talked about doing like a little mini minor league tour in the summer. Potentially the summer of 2022, but maybe the summer of 2023. But all of that to say this question does not completely come out of the blue. It’s something that we’ve considered doing. Because there are so many little pockets of baseball that we’ve just had no, no experience with.

ALEX:  Yeah, this belief that if this was a real scenario, I would spend countless hours in a fucking spreadsheet.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Just trying to figure out–

BOBBY:  This is, this is–

ALEX:  –what is–

BOBBY:  –fucking bag, dude, this is your real house.

ALEX:  What is, what is like, statistically speaking, what is the best like most efficient route you can take, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Only seven days, that’s not a lot of time. You’re not hitting more than a few cities in there. And even then, at best, you can maybe pack in two games a day. If you’re lucky, draw it if [1:07:56]–

BOBBY:  [1:07:56] you’re not good, yo’re not gonna do that on an empty day.

ALEX:  Right, that’s exactly. Well, you know, it’ll make you appreciate the the Major League Baseball that you do see, yeah. If there’s any that exists.

BOBBY:  If big IF.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  We might be doing several seven day trips to see different types of baseball this year. Feel a lot of free time and free and capital that’s freed up with with no New York Metropolitan baseball.

ALEX:  It is a little bit freeing, you know.

BOBBY:  Don’t get crazy.

ALEX:  Yeah, I know. I actually, I thought about it for a second. And and the th prospect of not having baseball like washed over me. And I felt instant regret.

BOBBY:  This is the part of the podcast where I say, opening day is literally supposed to fall on my birthday. And if it doesn’t happen on time, it will ruin my birthday. 26, guess what get off your parents health care and you don’t even have baseball.

ALEX:  Oh my gosh, we’re devolved.

BOBBY:  Anything else? You want to move tax date that day? Anything else? You want to research on student loans on March 31st?

ALEX:  Don’t give them any ideas, Jesus Christ. You know, I’m I’m on board with with these road trips. And if you the listener, have ideas, maybe you have done this sort of trip–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –before?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Send them into us. We’d love to hear about it. We’re we’re we’re always looking for ideas.

BOBBY:  I’ll open your Spreadsheet, tippingpitchespod@gmail.com.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  I listened to your voicemail, max cap three minutes, as long as you can leave a voicemail don’t call [1:09:31] 785-4225881. I will read your DM tipping_pitches on Twitter. We may be back later this week. If there is significant news about the collective bargaining agreement if there is not, we will be back. Tried and true, next Monday. Thank you for listening.

[1:09:52]

[Music]

[1:10:02]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodFebruary 28, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB CBA, MLB lockout, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on For Sale: Opening Day, Never Played	
The Minor League Theory of Value (feat. Harry Marino)

Bobby and Alex talk Bill de Blasio’s desperate plea for a resolution in MLB’s ongoing labor battle, then turn their attention to the Tyler Skaggs & Eric Kay case and discuss the broader implications the saddening tale may have on the sport. Then they bring on Harry Marino, executive director at Advocates For Minor Leaguers, to talk about the plan for housing in the minors, the complicated nature of pushing for better pay, getting players to open up, what’s coming up for the organization, and more. Plus, a few listener questions on the A’s quest for a stadium, conflicted fandom, shooting for the moon, baseball’s comparatively intense labor front, and the sport’s potential point of no return.

Links:

Advocates For Minor Leaguers 

Tipping Pitches merch 

Songs featured in this episode:

Arcade Fire — “Neighborhood #1 (Tunnels)”• Pavement — “Cut Your Hair” • Somos — “Lives of Others” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, we have a late breaking cold open for the podcast. I was gonna start with something completely different. And our friend and former guest of this podcast, Eric Silver, tagged me in a tweet. mere seconds before we logged on to the Zoom. I’m going to read you the tweet, and then I’m going to have you tried to guess who tweeted it? Are you–

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  –ready?

ALEX:  I think so. Yeah.

BOBBY:  “Here’s my message to @MLB and @MLBPA.” Capital, “STOP IT! Everybody CHILL. Spring Training should be starting RIGHT NOW. Americans have been through so much with COVID and we need the joy back in our lives. For the good of your country, put aside differences,” in all caps, “PLAY BALL.” Alex, I turn it to you, who tweeted that tweet?

ALEX:  Wow, yeah. There, there’s a lot to unpack there, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  I mean–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –you can really break this tweet down into parts. I think you said it was directed at both MLB and MLPPA.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  They’re both they’re both being implored to, to just stop it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, cut it out.

ALEX:  Everybody chill. I think that’s what you said.

BOBBY:  Everybody chill. For the good of your country, put aside the differences and play ball.

ALEX:  So it’s like a a a cool dad, politician, right? Someone who’s like country over party.

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  But also who can say like, the word chill.

BOBBY:  I like how you jumped straight to politician. I guess–

ALEX:  Well.

BOBBY:  –for the good of your country is kind of a dead giveaway.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, that’s kind of what I was thinking. I’m not sure how to narrow it down from there, though.

BOBBY:  Hey, I’ll give you a hint. I’ll give you a hint.

ALEX:  Okay. Okay.

BOBBY:  It’s a man that’s been very near and dear to you for the past six years? Six years or so, near and dear to Alex Bazeley.

ALEX:  I mean, I I would have said our former President, but he is neither near and dear to me, nor is he even on on Twitter. Like kind of rules that went out.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. And it can’t–

ALEX:  He did–

BOBBY:  –be, It can’t be J.D. Vance, because you know, he has not been relevant for the last six years. He doesn’t have that kind of staying power.

ALEX:  Right. It does have kind of like boil, boiler plate, like milk toasts Republican energy.

BOBBY:  Uhm I bet you say that. Cuz it’s not Republican.

ALEX:  Is it, is it de Blasio?

BOBBY: Yep. It is. It absolutely is, it absolutely–

ALEX:  Wowww.

BOBBY:  –is. Isn’t that really special?

ALEX:  That really is special.

BOBBY:  Eric wants to know, he asked us to answer this question for him. Have they tried this yet? Did they tried putting inside their differences yet?

ALEX:  Right, right. Just have, they tried just taking a chill pill.

BOBBY:  I I patiently await the day that current New York City Mayor Eric Adams, weighs in with his solution for how to fix this problem. Perhaps it’s just sending a SWAT team to burst down the door of negotiations, and just arrest everybody who’s not doing a good enough job.

ALEX:  Is Eric Adams, a a baseball guy? Like I feel like I haven’t heard him talk much about sports in general.

BOBBY:  I know, if there’s one thing you could say about Bill de Blasio, it’s that he was a huge baseball guy.

ALEX:  Yeah. Hey, I mean, even Andrew Yang knew that there were two basketball teams in New York. Even though he kind of flip flopped between the Nets and the Knicks.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Fair, fair weather fan, which–

BOBBY:  Supposedly he was a Mets fan.

ALEX:  –top two teams to be a fair weather fan of.

BOBBY:  Come on Lord Andrew. The water’s warm.

ALEX:  I do think the Mets kind of need a technocratic response to, you know, the the trials and tribulations that they’ve been facing. You know, like–

BOBBY:  They could have used the universal basic income for the last two decades, that’s for sure.

ALEX:  Boy could they have.

BOBBY:  I think Eric Adams is probably Yankees fan. Though, I have not seen any quotes about how he feels about Jameson Taillon’s health heading into the 2022 season. But we’ll, we’ll see somebody will ask him about it when the lockout is over. Somebody should ask him how the lockout should end.

ALEX:  I would like to see that. He might advocate for them to continue to simply be locked out and locked up. Yeah. Well, I would love to see someone spring that question. His solution might be to to to mean as you said, Sen–you know, maybe it doesn’t, doesn’t cops into the room and just whip the two sides into shape?

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly

ALEX:  But you know, sometimes that’s what you need.

BOBBY:  He’s the exact kind of loose cannon that could get it done federal mediator.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Just sent in ERIC. Once again, we continue our years long streak of talking about New York City politics. Even though, I assumed that a majority of our listeners are not even in New York City. Let’s talk about all the other stuff that our listeners actually want to talk, want to hear us talk about Alex. That is MLB collective bargaining negotiations. And even more excitingly, an interview with Harry Marino, the Executive Director of Advocates for Minor Leaguers. Who, if you’ve been listening for a while, you know, are a nonprofit group who helped to educate and bring awareness about problems facing Minor League Baseball. We’ve talked a ton about a lot of their work in the past year. Including the influential nature that they had in getting MLB to change their housing policy in Minor League Baseball. We’re gonna get into all of that with Harry that’s a little bit later in the episode. Before we do, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[6:13]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  You want to hear what I was gonna start the podcast with before Bill de Blasio handed a cold open to me on a silver platter. Do you [6:29]–

ALEX:  Please.

BOBBY:  –this was like the B-sides of the, of the cold open.

ALEX:  Right, what’s left on the cutting room floor? I just want to say before you tell me that. I did find the de Blasio tweet. And it’s even tweeted kind of in the the the Trumpy cadence, right?

BOBBY:  Right. Random–

ALEX:  Random–

BOBBY:  –caps.

ALEX:  –capitalizations?

BOBBY:  Yeah, I tried to do that justice.

ALEX:  Yeah, you did.

BOBBY:  It’s really bleak, when you go to Bill de Blasio’s Twitter page. Former Mayor of New York City, proud Brooklynite. Fighting for working people, no matter how much you make, or where you live.

ALEX:  I love that his, he had a thread about fascism, and being on the brink of war. Prior to this, he had, he had that a handful of tweets about crises of democracy. And then and then followed it up with everybody chill, guys. Let’s just take it easy.

BOBBY:  I saw someone replied to the, to that tweet about, not the fascist tweet. Tweet about MLB labor negotiations and say, okay, now I’m for the lockout, which is a really good joke. Okay, here’s the, here’s the B-side of the cold open. I was gonna ask you, do you ever think about what this podcast but more generally what your baseball fandom will be like after Rob Manfred retires? Because like he’s not going to be the Commissioner forever. He’ll, he’ll probably be it for a good while. But we’re young gentlemen, much younger than Rob. So we will be watching the sport of baseball, host Rob.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Has that ever occurred to you? Because it just occurred to me for the first time last week.

ALEX:  I mean, I suppose I haven’t thought about it in such concrete terms. Although I think in the back of my head, I, you know, you recognize that, Commissioners usually don’t hang around forever. Although if there’s someone who, who would be able to it’s probably Rob Manfred.

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s 63 years old, but he’s a young 63.

ALEX:  He is a young 63, as I’ve always said. The thing is, if Manfred was gone, I don’t know if things would be better or or worse. Because Manfred is relatively good at his job of going out there and defending owners. But he also consistently kind of, you know, steps on a rake, or like slips on a banana peel in front of the media.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  And my fear is that the owners will say, the players have really kind of, you know, drawn a line in the sand here. And they’re taking a much more hardline stance. We need someone who can stand up to them a little bit more and like not go out there and make a fool out of himself. Not go out there and tell blatant lies, right? Someone who’s a little more, you know, like someone who’s a little more conniving and–

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  –cunning with–

BOBBY:  Savvy.

ALEX:  –the way that they present their side. Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  The cynic in me just hears you describing Adam Silver.

ALEX:  Wow.

BOBBY:  I mean, everybody’s fave. Silver.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s what that sounds like to me. All right, well, I mean, I agree with you that I don’t think that anything about baseball fandom would materially change if Rob Manfred was not Commissioner. But I do think that stuff about this podcast would materially change. So I just was wondering if it ever occurred to you?

ALEX:  We’d lose a ton of material–

BOBBY:  Exactly.

ALEX:  –of [9:59] much.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like I’m sorry, Rob Manfred is, is terrible for the sport, but it is incredible content.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  So what are you going to do?

BOBBY:  Okay, shall we talk about Rob Manfred its beloved baseball labor negotiations?

ALEX:  Yes, let’s get to it.

BOBBY:  So, last week, the only update that we really got was that MLBPA returned a proposal they met only one day last week, and only for 15 minutes. Much discussed in the media only for 15 minutes. You know, who loves to talk about the length of bargaining sessions? Literally everybody, that’s all anybody was talking about last week. They’re like, oh–

ALEX:  Uhmm.

BOBBY:  –15 minutes. It’s longer than the 5 minutes that they met two weeks ago.

ALEX:  Yeah, every everyone made a joke about it. Oh, I had a podcast appearance, it was longer than the MLB and MLBPA met. Oh, I had, I had a–

BOBBY:  Oh, this is the length–

ALEX:  Kim’s–

BOBBY:  –of the SpongeBob episode.

ALEX:  Kim’s marriage to Khris Humphries last longer than like–

BOBBY:  That’s a good one.

ALEX:  Pulling out deep cuts.

BOBBY:  Did you, did you see that one? Or do you just come up with that. You should [11:05]–

ALEX:  No. I was just, I was just coming up–

BOBBY:  Yeah, fire that one off, man.

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  That would have been a good joke for, for when the owners didn’t return a proposal for 43 days. It took the owners longer to return a proposal than it did for Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries to break up. Shit, man, we’re six weeks late.

ALEX:  Oh, man, that was the golden age of of jokes, you know,

BOBBY:  What was? When Kim Kardashian was married to Kris Humphreys.

ALEX:  Right. And that was just like, the only thing anyone could talk about, right? It was kind of like, hey, man, this is, this is the life cycle of the internet for the next week.

BOBBY:  That is true. And now the lifecycle of the internet happens in the time that it takes MLB and MLBPA to meet. Oh, got ’em! No, much discuss was that 15 minutes. I just know that Michael Baumann was somewhere just punching the wall in frustration. Because he is on this quarter of the length of the sessions does not matter. And I agree with him. Because all of this, this, the only thing that happens in a bargaining session is you go to the table, you pass them your proposal, and you say, hey, do you have any questions? And the other side says, yes, we have two questions. And then they ask the two questions and you answer them. Or the other side says, no, we don’t have any questions, and then you go back to your respective corners. That’s it. I don’t think people really, I don’t think most people really understand that. I think that the like, the reasonable criticism that you could have is, why isn’t MLB looking over the proposal? Seeing what’s changed, meeting and doing the work of coming up with a counter proposal? The answer to that is because there are billions of dollars on the line. So they want to take more than just three hours to meet and send a proposal back in the same day. So they don’t bother meeting for longer, because they’re like, we’re not going to send you something back today anyway. So you don’t have to hang around here and wait for us. We’re just going to go home. And then we’re going to talk to our lawyers. This is not weird, like this is how this works. I think a reasonable request would be can you guys meet on consecutive days, maybe? But that would involve you know, both sides feeling a sense of urgency, which I think maybe the players are starting to feel a sense of urgency. And I think Manfred is starting to craft a faux sense of public urgency with delaying spring training back to March 5th. And saying we need to get this done by February 28, which is a week from when you’re listening to this podcast or a week from when this podcast is coming out. And that’s why they said that they will meet likely every day, this coming week. Now all of that being said, do you want to talk quickly about what changed in the proposal? Because I think both of us thought that we had talked about this last week, but we didn’t. We talked about it on a separate podcast appearance that we went on. So let’s really quickly go over what changed materially about the MLBPA’s proposals. So previously, the MLBPA wanted 100% of third year service time players to be arbitration eligible. That would not be a complete departure from the past. There have been areas of MLB where after two years, you, two years of service, you become arbitration eligible. Owners are, are not willing to give that extra year back. So as a move towards owners, the PA said that instead of 100% of third year service time players, we will drop that proposal down to 80% of third year service of players with three years of service will be arbitration eligible. And instead, we will add $15 million back to that pre-arbitration bonus pool. Which has been much discussed on this podcast and elsewhere. The the amount of the pre-arbitration bonus pool, the two sides are very far apart. MLB–MLBPA is currently at 115 million. And MLB is at like 10, I think or 15 was the latest proposal that they gave $15 million league wide, for all pre-arbitration players, Alex. There are 30 teams, 30 teams, $15 million, fight for it. This is like when, this is like those really awful dystopian game shows. Where they make you like run around and try to grab as many $1 bills as you can in a certain amount of time.

ALEX:  Right, yeah.

BOBBY:  This is like the MLB equivalent of that. I think a lot of people saw this, and the way that it was reported. Because most people are not following detail by detail. Most fans are not following, they’re just following the Jeff Passan tweets waiting for him to be like, they’ve reached a deal. And they see this, and the number of the pre-arbitration pool goes in the other direction, it goes back up. And people are like MLBPA is moving further away from the owners. But actually, the fucked up part, is this was a huge move from them. They’re starting to move down on that year of arbitration. That year of service time equating to getting to arbitration earlier. And that is something that the owners have been very against. And so that players are saying, hey, we’re willing to meet you in the middle. And now we’re waiting to see how the owners respond. But of course, this news comes out. And everybody’s like, we’re screwed, we’re getting no season.

ALEX:  Right. Well, all of this is couched in the the the the barbs that have kind of been shot back and forth, right? With Manfred, threatening to the the Players Association that, you know, this is the deadline, I believe was the 28 for a February, for the regular season to start on time. And the the Players Association turns around and says, if we don’t get 162 games, you’re not getting expanded playoffs. So I think, I think you’re definitely right that like, there is some sense of urgency on each side, maybe for different reasons. But that feels to me kind of why like why we’re in the position we are right now? Where the players are finally making concessions. And to the extent that we know about the owners are the ones who who have yet to really cave on any major issues. So now it’s their turn, right? Now, it’s kind of on them to come back and say, we see where you’re coming from.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Do you think they’ll do that? Do you think they’ll come back and be like, okay, you make a good point.

BOBBY:  It so, it’s actually a really interesting question. And I’m glad that you brought up the, the fact that Ben Nicholson-Smith, who’s a reporter, at Sportsnet Canada, reported that MLBPA has told MLB not to expect expanded playoffs in 2022. If players miss, miss the chance to play a full 162 games, and be compensated for the full season. I feel like that’s massive news in this negotiation, that wasn’t reported, at least I didn’t see it reported by Passan. I didn’t see it reported by Evan Drellich. So it’s hard to like truly verify if that is the case. But it would seem to make sense, because there are a myriad of different strategies that you can take, when you’re a union, heading into negotiation. One of those strategies is shoot for pie in the sky, and then have them chip away at that pie in the sky until you land pie on the mountaintop, or something. Like you might land somewhere in between, you know. Shoot for the moon land in the stars.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And.

ALEX:  That was very poetic.

BOBBY:  Thank you. I I work really hard at being a poet on mic. That’s one strategy. I don’t think that’s a very effective strategy for MLBPA, since everybody already thinks they’re greedy and selfish, and they’re fighting over money that they don’t deserve. And when I say everybody, I mean, a loud, vocal minority. So I think, from my perspective, the strategy that they have taken is set hard lines on certain things. Propose something that is pretty close to those hard lines, and just don’t move off of that. So move on other places, but move less or not at all, on the things that you’re not willing to bring back to your constituencies. To bring back to your unit members of the, of the MLB Players Association. And to do that you need to have in your bag, in your back pocket, either a move or a piece of leverage that will allow you to hold that hard line and say to owners, it’s in your court now. I can’t go back to my members and say we’re giving up on X. I can’t go back to my members and say we’re giving up on the competitive balance tax raising. Or I can’t go back to my members and say we don’t have a pre-arbitration bonus pool. And to me, this report about them saying we will pull expanded playoffs if you don’t give us a full season. That’s that’s a pretty big trump card. Like that’s a pretty big point of leverage that I did not know that the MLB Players Association Executive Committee and lead negotiator Bruce Meyer had in their back pocket. Because that’s, that’s the kind of thing that, that has to have buy in from all players. Like, players have to be willing to say, yes, I will miss a much bigger chunk of the season, potentially the full season, because you pulled that off the table after missing one game. Like everybody in the union has to be on board with that. Or at least a majority of people have to be on board with that. And that takes an incredible amount of organizing to be able to empower your negotiator to say this is the case. And if it’s a big bluff, they might actually be fucked. But I don’t think that it is a big bluff, because I don’t think you bluff over something like that.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, and the league’s position is on much shakier ground because they don’t necessarily have a similar bargaining chip in their pocket, right? Because the the the players have said, yes, we’ll do expanded playoffs for you. In exchange, we want XYZ. But that’s where the conversation starts, right? It kind of hinges on that center of the package.

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  The owner, the owner is saying, this is the drop dead deadline to get a full season. That means very little, because the players have kind of already indicated that they’re willing to miss some games. Now whether again, whether or not that’s that’s true, is another issue. I’m sure the players would rather not miss games. But it does seem like the the pressure is kind of mounting on MLB to really make a significant move–

BOBBY:  I agree.

ALEX:  –at this point.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Because if this is the case, like if if they truly have like buy in from all players, and all reports, lead you to believe that they do. Because the Players Association has been telling players for two years, this is what life will be like when you miss paychecks because of this lockout, or strike. They’ve been educating players about this, they’ve been saying, you have to plan for the fact that you will be working, even though we have a built in strike fund, we have all that stuff, it’s not going to be the same amount as your normal paycheck, you have to be prepared for that. And they do that because they knew that the owners were going to lock them out. And if not, they knew that it might come down to like it did in 1994, a player strike. And if they’ve waited until this moment, a week before the artificial deadline that Rob Manfred is saying to play the card of hey, we’ll pull expand to playoffs. Which to this point, everybody assumed was just going to be in the deal, you and I assumed it was going to be in the deal. As we were heading even before the lockout, when we’re talking about, hey, what are the biggest things, what are the biggest bargaining chips that players have? And we’re talking about expanded playoffs. I think, because it was so assumed that we were going to get expanded playoffs because they universally instituted them in the short and pandemic season. And it seemed like an obvious thing to trade for the players to get stuff back financially. I think there’s a decent case to make that MLB and the owners got complacent. And just assume they were going to get that. And if you pull that off the table at the last minute, suddenly there’s like a little bit of chaos and a little bit of scrambling on their side, in my opinion. So so I think this is the biggest piece of news that we’ve gotten about the actual dynamics at the table since the lockout started.

ALEX:  So does this mean that, does this mean there hasn’t been a formal agreement on playoffs yet? Like if if the players have already said ok to this and have more or less kind of agreed on at least the existence of expanded playoffs. Can they renege on that offer and say, well, you’re not giving us what we want? So we’re, we’re taking this back, essentially.

BOBBY:  So it’s hard to say without being in the room, like how expended playoffs has been discussed or proposed or negotiated or passed back and forth. But my guess would be the players have never put something across the table that did not tie expanded playoffs to something else, that they really want that the owners have not said yes to yet. So they can pull back expanded playoffs if they were, if they were saying what we’ve offered you is a package deal in exchange for 30 year arbitration or in exchange for a competitive balance tax that starts at 275 million. So they probably have not put in a proposal. Yes, we agree to expand it playoffs, but we need to talk about the term still. They’ve probably said this is a trade, we will only agree to expanded playoffs, if you agree to this other thing. And since the owners have said no to those other things, they still have the right to pull it off the table entirely.

ALEX:  Sweet, good for them. That’s, that’s smart, smart negotiating. That’s why they are at the table. And not and not me.

BOBBY:  Now, we’re obviously having this conversation without the complete picture. Like maybe we put this podcast out into the world and a day from now, we have a deal. Because owners are like, no, we need expanded playoffs. Because honestly, if you have been like I theorized complacent about the fact that you are getting expanded playoffs, you’re probably like, at the goal line of closing the TV deals for expanded playoffs. So you’re just waiting for the CBA to give you that, right. And if you don’t get that right, and you have to go back to Fox. And you have to say, just kidding, I have to leave $100 million dollars on the table this year, or whatever it actually costs for Fox or Valley Sports or ESPN or whoever to buy the rights for those extended playoffs. Man, you look really dumb, you look really dumb.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And, you know, owners do not like leaving money at the table in negotiations. Losing their leverage at the last second. So–

ALEX:  Shocking.

BOBBY:  I don’t know. It’s really interesting. I’m I;m curious to see how it plays out. As like I said, bargaining will be, if not daily, much more frequent this week, as we head towards that deadline, “that Manfred set” to reach, to reach a deal before games would have to get delayed.

ALEX:  Are we getting a season you think?

BOBBY:  I think we’re, I think we’re getting a season. I’ve already started to emotionally hedge for if we don’t. You know, fair, yeah. I’ve already started to think about the fact that Max Scherzer Smith’s contract wouldn’t start to lose 38.

ALEX:  Ouch. Wow.

BOBBY:  Yeah. I mean, it wouldn’t be the biggest, it wouldn’t be the biggest problem that would come from missing an entire season. But I’m thinking–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –about it in that context.

ALEX:  Yeah, you know, we all, we all come to it with our own baggage and our own hopes and desires.

BOBBY:  All right, suffice to say, if we get a CBA in the next couple days, Alex and I will be back for at bare minimum, a reaction podcast to that. Can’t promise emergency pods for anything else other than if MLB and the MLBPA tended to fully agree on the collective bargaining agreement.

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s kind of if we don’t do emergency pods for that whatever happened, you know, what are we been doing this for?

BOBBY:  All right, let’s move on. We’re, I’m gonna get to Harry Marino in just a minute. But Alex, I wanted to talk to you about something that we haven’t spent any time in the podcast talking about in the last month or so, as news about it has been unfolding. And that is the Eric Kay trial. Eric Kay, the former Communications Director for the Los Angeles Angels was on trial for providing the deadly drug fentanyl, which caused the death of Angels pitcher Tyler Skaggs. This has been, It’s been huge news in the baseball world, for the last few weeks. As many baseball reporters have been covering this trial. Because obviously, it’s worthy of covering on its own. But in the course of the trial, the discussion of how big of a problem are opiates, in Major League Baseball, within clubhouses. Is there a larger systemic problem that we did not previously know about. And that this trial was going to surface. And I think TBD on that last question. But the reason that we haven’t been talking about it is because it’s been every single piece of news coming out of this trial is crushing. It’s heartbreaking. There’s no winner to come out of this. Eric Kay’s lawyer after the trial set as much after his client had been found guilty. There’s no, there’s no winner here at all, no matter the result. Whether his client would have won or not. Tyler Skaggs is dead. And it’s a tragedy. And it was a tragedy from the second we found out about it, a truly shocking one. And the reason I wanted to talk to you about it today is because this trial just strikes me as another one of the things that Major League Baseball, the baseball community in general, is just woefully under prepared to cover respond to or fix. Like there are massive systematic lapses that had to happen for us to get this far. And we’ve already allowed those lapses to happen. And then we’re still, we the baseball community are still making mistakes after the fact. Like Matt Harvey goes on trial with immunity so that he can talk openly about his cocaine use, his addiction, his depression. Because of some of these things when he was with the Mets. And then the next day, we have a new cycle, where former Mets Manager Terry Collins comes out and shares private information that Matt Harvey told him while playing for Collins. And uses it as an opportunity to go around to anyone who will listen and try to absolve the Mets organization of any responsibility in this situation. Aside from the fact that, that’s a shitty thing to do. And you don’t share private conversations about mental health or addiction, or personal struggle in the media, let alone with anyone else in the media. The impulse for Terry to go out there and try to defend the organization’s role in all of this, is the reason that stuff like this is under wraps. Is the reason that things can be so bad with certain players that Tyler Skaggs tragically dies. And people had no idea what was going on. It took this long, and it took this trial to figure out what was happening. Like an organization’s tendency to try to express anything, when it comes to these problems, is how you get to this point. And it’s just really, there’s like, no satisfying end to this conversation. But I just find it incredibly depressing and crushing. As we were following the story for the last couple weeks.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, certainly you and I, and and I’m sure many baseball fans are familiar with the way that Harvey was treated by the New York media in his time as a New York Met, right? Which he was heavily scrutinized. And, you know, to a certain extent, there’s a sort of, I wouldn’t go go so far as to say glorification, but a bit of kind of tacit endorsement.

BOBBY:  A sensationalization at least.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly. Of, of this sort of thing, right? To say, oh, yeah, Harvey’s a party [32:18] man. He, you know, he goes out there on the town and has fun, he’s at one oak. But to like, live under that level of scrutiny as a Major League Baseball player. Especially, one dealing with copious amounts of injuries, right? Which, which this, which clearly played a role in this, again, like you said, it’s, it’s no surprise why these things stay under wraps. Because if you come out and talk about it, you, you know, you open yourself up even more to that kind of microscopic level of investigation. And, you know, as you mentioned up top, like, we kind of, we really don’t know, the extent of the opioid problem in MLB. If it’s anything like the rest of America, the chances are, it was probably not limited to these five players, these five Angels players.

BOBBY:  Yeah. And if you don’t even want to widen the scope that far, just look at the NFL. It’s like–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –huge, huge problem that’s not a secret at all that former players come out and talk about very openly.

ALEX:  Yeah, so this, this moves to a civil suit now, which could drag out for months, or years. And at this point, I think kind of attention turns to Major League Baseball, and how it’s going to approach this and handle it moving forward, right? When, following Skaggs’ death, the league started testing for these sorts of drugs. And they’ve they’ve made a statement that, you know, no other player has has tested positive since they started started testing for it. Although I’m sure that’s something that they would rather the public not know about anyway.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  But I have a a weird feeling that this is the sort of thing that MLB would love to kind of sweep under the rug, right? They can, they can either kind of see how the rest of this, see how the rest of the story plays out in the legal system and see and you know, see what comes out there. And really do their own deep investigation on the extent of this issue and their sport. Or they can cast Eric Kay as–

BOBBY:  One bad actor.

ALEX:  Right, the the the bad apple and something tells me they’ll kind of lean towards the latter of that move, right? Because this none of this paints MLB in a great light at all, right? There’s there’s culpability on plenty of people’s parts. And it does not begin or end with Eric Kay.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  There’s no way that this is where the problem ends. And as you mentioned, it’s just a sad story. Although I mean, there’s no, there’s no proper justice that can, that can be done–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –for Skaggs, there is nothing about this case that is going to tie this up in a nice little bow. And, frankly, there’s nothing that is really helped by putting Eric Kay in jail for 20 years.

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  As a result of this.

BOBBY:  No, because I agree with you that MLB will probably default to saying this is for for legal protection reasons, they’ll say this is one instance, we can’t be held responsible for whatever else is going on, if we don’t know about. But beyond that, like beyond the practicality, of knowing what each player and each employee of every team is doing, at all times, to to truly transformably address, addiction, which for a myriad of reasons, is going to be a problem in your sport. Because it’s a huge problem in this country, how we treat pain, how we respond to pain. The first thing we do is prescribe opioids for all pain, and pitchers are in pain most of the time. As pitchers have come on this podcast and told about, told us about, my elbow hurt a lot all the time when I was pitching. In order to truly transformably respond to the potential of addiction in your sport. It requires a truly honest approach where we show player’s grace for faults, which is not what we do in professional sports in America. Like, imagine you’re Matt Harvey, and you are struggling with addiction. And you show up late, and you’re being hammered as a lazy party or diva who doesn’t care about the team. Because of your dark night persona. It’s over, it’s a wrap from there, you’re never going to come out and be honest with with your teammates, or God for never with the media. But you don’t need to be honest with the media. But you’re never going to be honest, in a forum, where change can actually happen. You’re just going to shrink inward with it. Or I would, I know I would, I don’t want to speak for Matt Harvey. But that’s what I would do, if I was having this problem. And then from that point on, we’ve already taken the wrong path. We’ve already sent, we’ve already signaled to players, you can’t be honest about this. Because the media is going to crush you. And but then that’s just going to cause you to continue to have this problem. And that’s what happened with Matt Harvey. Problems just continued to get worse in New York. I don’t know exactly why. Nor should I, especially from the mouth of Terry Collins. And then we find ourselves here, where he is three organizations later. And now he’s on trial talking about these things, talking about these problems. And he can’t be the only one, he’s not the only player.

ALEX:  Yeah, and again, I mean, Collins’ actions throughout this have been pretty reprehensible–

BOBBY:  Extremely disappointing.

ALEX:  –and, and feeds into the exact reason why this problem has gone under the radar for so long, has gone unchecked.

BOBBY:  Exactly. If you’re gonna, if you’re a player, if you’re struggling with addiction, and after the fact, your organization is going to come out and publicly try to wipe their han–wipe their hands of the situation. You’re not–

ALEX:  So we tried to help them–

BOBBY:  –you’re not gonna go–

ALEX:  That’s right, people knew.

BOBBY:  If if you see that, and you’re a player, you’re not going to approach your organization the next time through. It’s just incredibly disappointing. I was like, as someone who spent a lot of time with Terry Collins, not in person, but as a fan who spent a lot of time rooting for watching, consuming the team that he was at the helm of the longest tenured Mets manager ever. It really upset me to see him in that context. And to do that dirty work for the Mets organization, in any outlet that would print it, essentially.

ALEX:  Especially knowing the organization’s history with addiction issues like this.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Right? They’re being a team, cheekily known for their open use of cocaine, right? Despite the fact that it was a real issue that was afflicting multiple players.

BOBBY:  And it’s, it’s not even worth categorically talking about the organization. I’m sure there were people within the organization who were earnestly trying to help Matt Harvey. Like there were definitely good people and teammates, and friends and employees of the Mets who were like, yeah, this is a problem. We’re going to try to help Matt as much as possible. I’m going to do my absolute best. But if the, if the overall umbrella of the organization, at the end of all of this is Terry Collins coming out and saying we tried our best, and then sharing stuff that he shouldn’t share. It’s a failure. It’s an organizational failure. And it, it should be acknowledged as such.

ALEX:  Yeah, I don’t have a lot more to add on this. Will obviously be following this story and it’s just incredibly disheartening and and saddening. I’m sad. That’s it.

BOBBY:  All right, we’re gonna take a quick break and then when we come back we’ll bring in Harry Marino.

[40:18]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Longtime coming, we’re now joined by Harry Marino, Executive Director of Advocates  for Minor Leaguers. Harry, how you doing? Thanks for joining the show.

HARRY:  Doing well. I’m doing well, Bobby, thanks for having me.

BOBBY:  I say a long time coming because we have been discussing your work at Advocates for Minor Leaguers for quite a bit now. We’ve, listeners might remember that we had Matt and Ty on the podcast at the beginning of the pandemic just to talk about the formation of Advocates for Minor Leaguers. But so much has changed since then. So before we even get into any of the stuff that’s happened, any of the Major League Baseball policies that’s changed. Any of the news about spring training. Any of what what you’re looking to accomplish in 2022? I want to ask you, Harry, when you were part of the beginning of Advocates for Minor Leaguers, you know, what was your vision? And how much has it changed since then as the outside baseball world has changed drastically?

HARRY:  So at the beginning of this journey for Advocates for Minor Leaguers. I think the biggest question was, how involved are players going to be in this effort, right? Is this going to be a purely third party effort? Where it’s former players and you know, fans and and outside folks who are supportive and want to see a change, speaking up on behalf of minor leaguers for our players at themselves actually going to be a part of the effort? And I think at the outset, it was hard to know exactly what direction that was going to go in. We certainly always knew that the more involved players themselves were going to be the more successful the effort was going to be, right? And so, I would say that, you know, when I think back to sort of the beginning stages, I think that was the big question mark. I I think we were very hopeful about what we could accomplish regardless of that. But we certainly knew that the more involved players we’re going to be, you know, the more successful it’s going to be. And over the last, you know, two years since the organization was founded, and really over the last year, I I took over as the first staff member just in April of 2021, right. So in terms of actually having like an operational staff, now we’ve grown, you know, it’s been less than a year. The biggest and most exciting change has been how involved active players have been in, in the movement and in advocating for themselves. And so that’s, I would say the biggest change has been just saying, you know, seeing how how involved players are willing to be and I think that’s changed the horizons and made more possible for what we can accomplish.

ALEX:  Yeah, it’s really, really remarkable, the amount of voices that we’ve seen from both major leaguers and minor leaguers, speaking up about conditions in the minor leagues that have been this way for decades. But the I feel like the the broader public maybe just doesn’t have that in depth knowledge, right? You assume you’re a professional athlete? Oh, I’m sure they make 1000s of dollars each month, right? And you hit them with the facts and say, no, this guy’s living on a couch for five people and gets 500 bucks a month, right? And everyone sits back and says, whoa! So it’s been, it’s been really cool to see that. I’m I’m wondering, did you guys have any trouble early on kind of getting that buy in from players? And and kind of what does that work actually mobilizing them looked like? Because obviously, there’s it’s kind of a precarious situation that a lot of them are in and there are reasons why they may choose to to kind of stay silent, keep their head down. So what does that process been like?

HARRY:  I think important context for this is everything that happened, right, with COVID and the canceled season, right? Because so I I compare things, I’m a former, I’m a former player, right? I played in 2012, 13, and 14. So, you know, when I was playing in the minor leagues, obviously, the issues were, were very much the same, were very much known to the players. And certainly there was no shortage of dialogue amongst players, right? About how bad the conditions were. But that really never made its way out into the public. And it was always seen as something that was sort of, you know, you’re supposed to just keep your head down. And, and kind of grin and bear it as it were, right? I mean, just really just deal with it. And I think what happened in 2020 with the canceled season and with the pandemic was players really saw it In a very front and center way, what it felt like to have absolutely no power, right? Beyond just the typical working conditions, and low pay and all that, they really realized, wow, like, we have no say over this at all. Like we’re missing an entire season here. We don’t even know what’s happening. Some cases, you guys know, like, things aren’t even being communicated to us. We don’t know, you know, we’re basically pulled into a meeting told, like, you know, head out, and we’ll be in touch. And I think that feeling of powerlessness really like resonated with guys. And then you compound that with then a long, prolonged period of time, where guys had a moment to sit back and reflect. Rather than being at the field 12 hours a day. And I think what happened was guys kind of came back last year, with a different mindset, right? And having sort of reevaluated some of the things that that players had accepted for so long. And so when we, you know, engage in outreach, from advocates, to players. And now like, you know, having more players involved in what we’re doing player to player outreach. A lot of it is just changing a culture, right? And, and I think the culture is changing right before our eyes where guys are just more and more willing to speak openly and speak frankly, with their teammates. But then also, you know, with the media, on social media themselves. And just become more candidly, it even in some cases, to their front office’s guys just saying, hey, what’s going on here? Like, what’s this policy, what’s that? Just stuff that wouldn’t have necessarily happened 5 or 10 years ago, that guys are just much more willing to do now. And I think it is that cultural shift. I don’t think the story could be told without the canceled season, and and COVID. And I think it’s, it’s something that, like much social change just builds on itself. So it’s continuing to build as we, as we move into the season.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think it’s kind of hard to overstate how different things are now than they were when you play it. And and and for even five years ago, or even three years ago, when Alex and I were doing this podcast. Like, there was not this much news about Minor League Baseball, organizing in Minor League Baseball, about protesting conditions in Minor League Baseball. Sympathy from fans, sympathy from certain members of front office’s. Sympathy from writers who are writing these stories. Like how much are you surprised by how quickly all that has changed? Are you kind of like, do you attribute a lot of that to the pandemic? Because there was sort of like a leveling, and everybody was kind of in their homes. But you know, I think of something like, like Matt, who’s been on the show, Matt Paré, who, who made this video, homeless, the ‘Homeless Minor Leaguers’, and it was kind of like this joking tone. And this was like a very long time ago, and it kind of went mini viral for a while there. And that was like, a roundabout way of addressing the very real problems that now people are just not having to do that round about. Like the the climate, the Overton window has shifted. So how much are you surprised by how quickly a lot of that has happened?

HARRY:  You know, I think it has been surprising to see how quickly some of it has has changed and how much especially and it’s been heartening to see how much sort of, you know, mainstream baseball media and the fans, you know, major league fans have taken on this issue. I mean, you guys probably saw this. But when The Athletic posted a couple weeks ago, this survey of their, of their subscribers write about what issue they would most like to see change. They could people could pick a few issues and like something like 80% of people pick minor league pay and working conditions as something they would most like to see change. That there’s no you guys know, there’s no way that that probably wouldn’t have even been on the list. Definitely would not have been at the top of the list three years ago, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

HARRY:  So that’s been, that I would say, you know, it would be disingenuous to say that that’s not surprising. I don’t think that could have been predicted. You know, I will say that what our organization has been able to do and certainly set out to do is provide sort of that central space for some of this work to happen, right? And I think that is a big change, right? Is okay, now there’s actually, and Matt and Ty probably, you know, said some version of this when they spoke to you. But, you know, part of what we’re trying to accomplish is fill the gap that exists. Because there’s nobody who’s day in and day out working on these issues, right? Before that was kind of how we thought about it was. Like there’s nobody who’s actually supposed to be advocating for minor leaguers and speaking up for minor leaguers day in and day out. That’s nobody’s job description yet, like let’s change that, let’s create an organization where there will be, you know, folks who are actually dedicated to doing that day in and day out. And then that becomes the hub as it were, right, of this energy that might otherwise be out there among players, among fans, among meda members to, to see this and have been troubled by it. But haven’t necessarily had anything, you know, to channel it towards. Like now we have sort of a central hub where it’s like we could bring everyone together. and start talking in a more unified way and kind of get a drumbeat going. And I think that’s largely how we see our role is like, is centering and collecting the voices that were otherwise disparate, and maybe whispering and maybe didn’t know that there was another voice out there to even have dialogue with about this. But they’ve been out there. I think we kind of knew that was out there. But it’s been really rewarding to see how quickly the conversation has shifted, as all those voices have come together more.

ALEX:  Obviously, there have been a lot of kind of milestones over the last couple years for you guys. But one of the the biggest ones, and one of the biggest victories in my mind so far came this past November, right? When Major League Baseball announced that the 30 teams were going to provide housing to all minor leaguers face, I mean, under a certain light, you know, if you’re making less than 100k, which is huge, right? And I think it took a lot of people on the baseball community aback that, that the league was actually like willing to engage on this issue and say, okay, maybe you’re right, maybe we should–

BOBBY:  Oh, meaningful [51:06]–

ALEX:  –address, addressing the issue.

BOBBY:  That’s what that looks like.

ALEX:  But I’m curious if you can speak a little bit bit about what that campaign was like? What the, what the dialogues were that you were having? And, and like where it stands now? Like, do you see the policy as being finalized? Is it set in stone? Do you think there’s still places that improvements can be made? Like where’s your head at with that right now?

HARRY:  So to go back to sort of the beginning of the housing campaign, and kind of walk you through how that evolved. And even maybe, to take you back just a bit before that, I think when you zoom out, and you talk to most minor leaguers, certainly that I’ve talked to, and in my own personal experience, you know, I felt this way. Housing, and the lack of year round pay, were always kind of the two issues that seemed most egregious. Because they not only weren’t fair, obviously, to the players. But they also didn’t make any sense from a player development standpoint, right? Like, didn’t make any sense to have players facing housing insecurity, sleeping on air mattresses. You know, really stressing about like leases and double rents and all that stuff, never made sense, right? And then same thing like never made sense to have, and to continue to have players work in second and third jobs in the offseason not having enough money for training, right? So I think those two issues were always very prevalent in any kind of dialogue about the minor leagues, among players. About like, what should change because for the, for that reason, that they’re not just unfair, but also, like the team should want this to be different themselves, right? So anyway, you know that I say that just as sort of like, you know, a starting point. But really, as I said, you know, in April, is when I started in the job, and when we could really devote like full time resources to an actual issue campaign, that could actually have a chance to win, right? You actually maybe have the manpower to do that. And we just started talking to players. Because at the end of the day, that’s what we want to do is advocate for players like, All right, let’s talk to current players in here. Like, where would they start, right? In terms of making changes. And what we were hearing was housing, housing, housing, housing, right? Like, it was like, all right, let’s, let’s just, we could just go out and kind of complain, or raise awareness about all the different issues, you know. And it’s, there’s some value to that, but let’s like try to actually hone in on one particular issue and, and see if we can really get an actual change there. Because in doing so, we can hopefully, show players that their voice actually has some clout and some power, right? And so over the course of the season, that was really, a lot of our our player contacts and player outreach, were about housing. It was every day, you know, dozens of players, sometimes hundreds of players a day, just reaching out. Hey, what’s going on housing, what’s going on housing, and what we saw as the season went on was more and more players engaged in that conversation and wanting to talk about that. And in turn, you know, then we were able to, you know, share those stories with people in the media. Share those stories, you know, with the with folks directly on social media, ourselves. And I think that just created a little bit of a drumbeat where people were like, raise, you know, raising awareness, raising awareness. And then, you know, Britt Gourley wrote a great story in August, that compiled a ton of player voices. And I think there was something like 30+ players that talk to her for that story, which is pretty unprecedented, right? And it made, made a huge impact. And then Joon Lee, wrote another story in September that I think, again, made a huge impact in terms of really shining a light on where players were coming from. And so at that point, we knew that that teams were paying attention, that the league was paying attention, that fans were paying attention, the players were paying attention. And that’s when we decided to to really go for this Fan Appreciation Day, on September 18, the last Saturday of the season. Say let’s try and take it up a level and see if players will wear these #FairBall wristbands on the field and raise awareness in an actual demonstration on the field. That obviously never had been before. We weren’t sure, you know, what the appetite was going to be for that. But as we talked to guys, on both of those clubs, we had some really strong leaders in both those clubs and talked to them about it, they were really interested in doing so. And to be there in Brooklyn that day and see all these guys out on the field wearing these wristbands say, you know, demanding #FairBall was really powerful. And I don’t think it was last in the league, it’d be when you look at the timeline, right? Three days later, was with the owners meeting where they voted to change the housing policy unanimously, after decades of it being the old way. So that was kind of the progression. It’s a credit to a ton of people, honestly, primarily the the many players who are willing to tell their story that that we were able to get it done.

BOBBY:  You know, Harry, as a Mets fan, this is not that high of a bar to clear. But that was probably one of the most heartening things that I saw all of this 2021 baseball season was that #FairBall that, you know, organized, right, wearing the wristbands at the end of the season. So congratulations to everybody who had a hand in that. We we immediately were like, this is amazing. But I wanted to ask you, you know, obviously the owner took notice, you know. Obviously, Major League Baseball took notice, how much are you engaging with like MLB? The league, the the off–the front office? You know, like, how much are you talking with people, if at all, who have the ability to kind of change some of these things? Because I know that certain clubs, you know, did have better policies on housing than others before every club made it, you know, a a league wide instituted thing. Like, you know, we saw that the Astros were one of the first to move the Royals were one of the first to move. And so are you talking with people from those clubs to talk about how they’ve made some of those changes ahead of the curve of the rest of the league? And how you can maybe institute some of those strategies league wide? Or is this more of a, let’s centralize this at advocates. And let’s hope that what we’re doing who we’re talking to in the media, the conversations we’re having with players is then going to build a groundswell up to the entire league.

HARRY:  So at the beginning of our time, during this work, I think there was a bit of a question on our end about how willing teens would be to engage with us directly on some of this stuff. And, you know, without going into too much detail, I think it became clear that the league certainly wasn’t going to be interested in us doing a ton of talking to players. I mean, you seem to be talking to teams directly. And you know, that a lot of teams were going to be pretty reticent to do that as well. And so at, you know, at that point, we basically decided, right, we have to take this other path because they don’t want to engage with us directly. Which, you know, and I think basically, the reason there is probably understood to you guys and and to many of your listeners. But is the, the mistreatment of minor leaguers is fundamentally based on collusion, right? And uniform treatment across every team. As soon as there’s competition between teams for minor leaguers, you know, labor costs in the minor leagues skyrocket. So then they do not want that. The owners don’t want that the league doesn’t want that, right? They want uniformity, period. And we can talk about that in the context of this housing policy and some of why, you know, they probably changed it was like to re-institute some of that uniformity. So anyway, having said that, because there’s that desire for uniformity on the other side. Yeah, we’ve certainly had some dialogue with different people in front offices and different folks on the team side who are more inclined towards, like, let’s make this better. Let’s modernize player development. Let’s give guys housing. Let’s pay them year round, those people are out there. I mean, for anyone who doesn’t know, like, there’s people are out there, 100%, who see this, who want it to change. But ultimately, the answer you get from them usually is my hands are tied, and I’ve made, you know, I’ve made this pitch year in and year out, like let’s do this, let’s do that. And it’s really coming from on high from the league, you know, at the behest of the owners that we’re going to keep things right where they are. And so the level of dialogue that you can have with, you know, player development folks, even higher player development, folks that will be that fruitful is pretty limited. Because of that sort of centralized approach that the league takes to minor league conditions. So that’s kind of why we’ve taken the approach we have of like, let’s take it straight to the, to the to the fans and and and, you know, make our case in public because we’re not really you know, we’re barking up the wrong tree if we’re trying to make it happen, you know, at the league wide level.

ALEX:  Right. Just asking owners to do the right thing doesn’t often really–

HARRY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  [59:56]

HARRY:  Exactly, exactly.

ALEX:  I’m I’m wondering has, have you guys received any pushback? Or has there been any dissent in kind of these organizing campaigns? Whether that’s among players who are saying, hey, it’s, it’s, you know, maybe it’s not our place to do this, or it’s from maybe minor league team or minor league owner or something like that. Obviously, I’m not asking you to name names or anything like that. But just more the broad culture there, there has been a bit of a cultural divide between players who say, this is this is the grind, right? This is just what you do to play the game. And then and then players who were willing to speak up and say, no, maybe we should all get together and do something about this. So like, have you kind of come into any of those roadblocks along the way?

HARRY:  I don’t think there’s been a whole lot of dissent, right? As it were, are people who are saying like, hey, what are you doing? Like, why are you trying to make things change? They’re, they’re good enough, right? Like anything like that. I think there’s certainly a group of players, understandably, who still don’t want to speak out, right? And are just more comfortable being silent about it, and are perfectly happy to see other guys speaking up, and that people are doing it. I mean, you know, I can give you some anecdotes, just like, there’s, there’s a handful of guys who have certainly said, I so appreciate the work that you guys are doing, and the work that these other players are doing and speaking up. I personally, I’m still scared to to speak up or just don’t feel comfortable speaking up or don’t really want to rock the boat or feel like I’m in a precarious position in my organization, I’m not a prospect, I’m really on the fringes as as it is. Certainly there are some guys like that. But no, I mean, they’re really kind of going back to the first thing that we talked about here, the thing that’s been really crazy to see is just how engaged players are, how willing guys are to speak up about this, how much they do want to actually be a part of this and be a part of the change, and how much a lot of that conversation has been. And this has been really cool, and really heartening to see has been about like, let’s, let’s make this better for the next generation, like a lot of guys who understand the time horizon of this stuff, and that it’s not all gonna happen overnight. And that the reality is, whether they’re in the show, or they’re released, they’re probably not gonna be in the minor leagues, you know, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 years from now, right? Whatever the case may be. But they still want to be a part of it, because they see this as a moment to make things better for the guys who are in college, in high school, Little League, and so on right now. And and that those are actually sometimes the terms that guys use in talking about. So that’s been really powerful, to hear, to hear and to see. And I think it’s really promising for, you know, moving forward the kind of change that we can accomplish.

BOBBY:  Is that something you were thinking about in real time, when you were in the minor leagues, when you were kind of experiencing some of this stuff firsthand? Like, take us back to the mindset of a Harry Marino in 2012? Like, were you thinking like, hey, I would love to change this someday, if I get a chance. Or did you not even have, because I think sometimes we talk about these things. And what we don’t acknowledge or or what we, what we should acknowledge maybe more often is the the version of this conversation where we’re like, this is really hard for guys to do. Like, this is a lot of work for players who are being shipped off to towns that they’re not from, they’re 18 years old, they are just trying to make the team. They’re not a bonus baby. So the organization is not maybe as invested in them as they might be in some other guys who are playing alongside them. I, I wonder like, how much was that on your mind? The person who eventually goes on to become Executive Director of Advocates for Minor Leaguers? How much did you even have time to think about that when you were playing Minor League Baseball?

HARRY:  Yeah, it’s an interesting question. I I definitely was very, very surprised by the reality of playing in the minor leagues, pretty much immediately. In my first year, it’s been short season, I remember making like $3,300, right? For the year and just being like, this doesn’t add up, right? This is like not right. This isn’t like, oh, I made 30 grand or I made you know, there’s a low paying job or something like that. It’s like three, I mean, it’s hard to wrap your mind around like $3,000, right? I mean, it’s like what’s going on here? So that definitely was very impactful, I think, particularly in 2013. I was with the Orioles’ in Aberdeen in the New York-Penn League and was in a bullpen with.

BOBBY:  RIP New–

HARRY:  I’m not sure.

BOBBY:  –York-Penn League.

HARRY:  I know, I know, a great league, a great–

ALEX:  Perfect league.

HARRY:  –league. Really great fan support really, really fun League. And you know, I was in the bullpen. I was relief pitcher and the other guys in the bullpen were like five guys who were all from the Dominican Republic. All through very hard, great guys. At that time, I, my Spanish was pretty decent. And so we just sit out in the bullpen. We just talk about life and about everything and and I just came to really understand the minor leagues through their lens of like, you know, signing. You know, not to go down that whole road of like sort of the Dominican academies and like all of that whole ecosystem, right? But just like learning the real story of like dropping out of school and playing baseball all day. Every day from the time they were 10, you know, and making already through so many levels just to get to short season a ball, right. And I think like now, none of them made us a big release, right? And just seeing, okay, we and these guys are making like 3 grand a month right now. And most of them are sending a lot of it home, right? There, it’s being, it’s being sort of use to support their families. And I remember just thinking, as I watched that, like, this is, this is not right. You know, we’re providing way more value to these teams than this. And he has, some guys will make it to the big leagues, and they’ll get a payoff, and it’ll come out in the wash for them. But for a lot of guys, that’s not going to happen. This was like what they were put on earth to do. They’re really amazingly good. I mean, you’re throwing a ball 100 miles an hour, I can say, as a guy could barely touch 90, but that’s pretty crazy, right? So like they like–

BOBBY:  Hey you we’re doing southpaw, though, right?

HARRY:  Like just some other things, but but, you know, realizing like this is, this is an exceptional talent. And there’s a real demand to watch these guys perform. And there’s a short window in which they can do it, you know, and, and actually make money off it. And they’re not cashing in on that in any way. And the only reason is like the system is structurally set up in a way that’s not fair to them. That definitely was on my mind at the time. And, you know, I applied to law school, in the offseason, after that 2013 season. And I remember in my law school admissions essay writing about advocating for those guys as like some didn’t know what it would look like. But just as something that really just like an attorney and a lawyer, as somebody who can be an advocate for someone who isn’t in a position to necessarily advocate for themselves. That was kind of like what I had written about. And I’d use those guys, just as one example, doesn’t mean I knew I was going to be in this role, you know.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

HARRY:  All these years that align.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

HARRY:  But it was definitely something that was very much in my mind at that time.

ALEX:  Minorly pay seems like it’s kind of the the next big hurdle that that minor leaguers are facing. That the the broader cultural conversation is facing around this, right? Just just a few days ago, we had the league come out and argue in court, that players that minor league play–layers should remain unpaid in spring training. Obviously, they don’t, they don’t get paid in the offseason, either. Although they’re required in their contract to to perform duties in the offseason, which is a really interesting twist. But I’m wondering how you, not only kind of how you approach this issue, in in general. Because it’s obviously a really unwieldy one. And there’s a lot of different issues with it, right? Times that players don’t get paid, the amount that they get paid, that sort of thing. But then there’s also kind of this, this larger public messaging fight that you have to wage, right? Because the league really doesn’t, you know, they wanted they want to tamp down on costs, right? So it makes sense that they’re going to come out and say, we we don’t think that you should be paid during spring training. We’re going to lobby for the Save America’s Pastime Act to make minor leaguers exempt. So how are you kind of approaching that from a communication standpoint to really rally, I guess, favor in in, you know, towards you guys?

HARRY:  So I think the thing with pay is, as as you rightly note, there’s a few different ways to think about it or to approach it, right? And the way just as a first cut that we are thinking about right now is trying to take it to just a very basic level, which is zero and drop. Whatever specific value guys are providing, which we can argue about. It’s more than, you know, a livable annual salary, period. Nobody to this point, at least we’ve never heard anybody make, even on the League side, any actual argument to the contrary, right? Like nobody’s actually said, no, actually guys are providing less value than that. So I mean, I guess I should, you know, never say never maybe that maybe that day is coming soon. But we haven’t heard that at this point. So–

BOBBY:  That be a big fan of Tipping Pitches [1:09:31] come soon.

HARRY:  No kidding. But, you know, so I think the way that we look at it right now is is kind of at that base, baseline level, right? Like, guys deserve a livable annual salary, because a year out job, and they’re providing at least that much value to their team. And so I think that’s kind of like the first cut. And then, you know, to be clear, that isn’t sort of, you know, the end point of where we see the [1:09:58] conversation going. I think the second stage and that will be a conversation around. Okay, let’s now actually talk about what’s the real value that minor leaguers provide? And, you know, again, I think that’s a conversation for a later date. But really, just as a preview, I think the way to think about it in some way is minor league is really provide two forms of value, right? They’re kind of they’re provide, like current entertainment value to minor league fans. And then they provide, you know, value as prospects to their major league team. And so, you know, there are different ways to quantify what that value is. And I think, again, I think that’s a conversation for a later date. But at this point, it’s very clear that that’s well above the livable annual salary. So at this point, we’re focused on that, that as like, the threshold issue is like, let’s get to a livable annual salary. Let’s make sure guys are not having to work second and third jobs in the offseason, make sure you guys can afford training, right? Let’s make sure that guys are making ends meet as a starting point. And then we can have the later conversation about getting them paid what they’re actually worth and what they’re actually owed. But let’s start here, because I think it’s it’s just kind of like with housing, there’s just no argument to the contrary. There’s no viable, rational feasible argument that says, guys shouldn’t be making a livable annual salary. So, you know, that’s kind of where we want to start.

ALEX:  I mean, can’t you go to your landlord, or go to the grocery store and say, I don’t have money, but I do have baseball player experience, right? Because you are being paid in that, you do have the skills to grow 90 mile per hour fastball, so that counts for something.

HARRY:  And you know, it’s so funny, obviously, like, the argument that MLB made, and in court, right, last week, about spring training pay, that got a lot of attention. I can say that really struck a chord with players really did, I think it was so, there’s certain level of you come into the minor leagues, you know, it’s not glamorous, you know, it’s not right. But you kind of know what it is, right? And it’s your only path. And so you don’t have a choice. So guys go in and with eyes wide open, they, and they deal with it the best they can. I think hearing from the league and from the teams, that that’s how the teams actually think about these guys that they’re so little respect, right? That it’s like, hey, we actually, we respect you so little that were willing, in a federal court, to get up with a straight face. And say that we are actually providing you $2,200 a week of value, because that’s how much you would have to pay if you were an amateur player coming to get, you know, coached up by our coaches and use our facilities. It’s so offensive to guys, there’s really angered them. And I’m not that surprised, because I find it very offensive and very angering. But like the number of even top prospects, top round guys, like across the sector, and guys, who I’ve talked to in the last week. Who have been so angry about that comment by Major League Baseball in that argument by Major League Baseball has been has been really powerful to see. And I think it shows that these guys know that they’re the best players in the world. They’re proud of that they’re proud of the work they’ve put in. And it’s one it’s it’s sort of like, it’s one thing to say, we’re going to underpay you, we’re going to explain to you, you know, all the all of that, right? And guys are like, All right, I’m wearing it, I’m wearing it, I get it, I get it. But to say like, hey, also, like you’re just an amateur, like you’re, you know, you’re lucky to be here. Because it’s in some ways, kind of interesting. It’s almost like that was just a bridge too far, right? Where a lot of guys they’re like, come on.

BOBBY:  They flew so damn close to the sun, Harry. Like that, they had it, you know, they have it 12 or 11 and a half months a year. And then for those three weeks, you want to continue to fly that close to the sun. Like to the point where it’s it’s, you’re right, it is insulting. To the, to the point that the number one overall draft pick from last year is like what the hell, like this is just it is it’s a bridge too far. But I mean, I want to go back to it really quickly what you said about like getting people a livable year round salary. It alwa-it has always struck me as so, you know, confounding, but not really confounding because I just understand that it’s disingenuous from our men for to go up there and say, you know, it’s a an administrative burden to try to figure out how much minor leaguers are playing and that’s why how much they’re playing, how much they’re working. How often they’re in, you know, should they be paid during team meals? Should they be getting paid for bus rides? Like all that stuff. And I’m like, you realized that that is a problem in the rest of society also. Like that you some jobs, you don’t know how much you’re working or how often you’re working or how many hours. Some people don’t log their hours. That’s called a salaried employee. And there’s a minimum salary that you have to pay those people so like, why are you getting up into court and not making that same exact case for minor leaguers. That that minimum salary in each state is like 10 times higher than what you’re currently paying minor leaguers. So i don’t know, I it’s I don’t think there’s even a question in there, I’m just now frustrated because of all of the stuff that we’ve been talking about. But it it’s hard and I imagine it must be very hard for you guys to even enter that field of play. When that is the level of argument that you have to try to approach. And as someone who went to law school understands why they would make that case in a court. But how it makes no sense in the real world, I imagine that that must be very frustrating for you.

HARRY:  Yeah, look, I mean, certainly, I think strategy and argument discipline are really key here. Because it is so easy to say the other side’s being disingenuous, they’re being offensive, they’re being just frankly, ridiculous, and how they’re arguing about this. And to just say, like, let’s just throw the kitchen sink at them, like just say, this is all crazy. And just like, you know, get really upset about it. And I think there’s a strong impulse to do that. And I mean, personally, and I think in our group, and among a lot of players. And I think what has been really beneficial has been saying, like, look, at the end of the day, we want to be, we don’t just want to be outraged about this, we want to make change. And the way to do that is to like step back and say, they’re gonna say what they’re gonna say, we know what we’re up against. Like, let’s think about how we actually make a change here. And let’s hone in on things where we kind of ignore their framing of it. And we just think about what’s actually fair here, what’s actually equitable, what’s actually just, and let’s just stay in that in that ground. And I think, you know, you guys could be a judge of this better than, than me, probably. But I think there have been tons of opportunities over the last year or two, for us to take shots at the league, take shots at the Commissioner, take shots at owners. And really like just, you know, kind of go after them. And, you know, potentially, ju–in a justified way for some of the stuff they’ve done. I think, time and again, we’ve chosen not to do that, and instead just stayed sort of focused on like, let’s hold them accountable to what they’re doing. Let’s stick to ours to our talking points. Let’s take the high road here. Because that’s how we’re going to get the public on our side. Like this doesn’t need to be a spitting match. Everyone knows we’re on the right side of this thing. Let’s stay focused, let’s not get thrown off our game. And I think that’s benefited us so far. I think it’s a credit to all the players who have all the reason in the world to be really angry and emotional about this. But have really done a great job of, of staying even keeled. And just and just putting stuff out there even you see over the last week guys on Twitter, just saying like, look, this is these are the facts. This is how I’ve been treated. This is it, like I’m not not saying–

BOBBY:  This is–

HARRY:  –screw the owner.

BOBBY:  This is not a political opinionated statement. This is just my…this is my W-2.

HARRY:  Period, right? Like, here are the facts. You make your own decision about whether this is fair. And the facts in this particular circumstance speak for themselves.

BOBBY:  I think that’s very reasonable. You can leave the cathartic reactionary outrage to guys like us. We will carry that mantle.

HARRY:  Be to have you guys do that. No, I mean, I get it completely. And I think it’s, it is, look, it’s frustrating to hear things that are obviously disingenuous. Like, it’s not a good investment to own a major league team or minor league players should pay $2,200 a week for spring training because they’re getting an opportunity. Like those are very frustrating things. And I would say that, I think you just zoom out and look at the lockout right now and where, where the fans are at. I think a large part of why the fans seem to be so much on the players side at this point, has to do more with like the nature of those disingenuous arguments from the League side than even the substance of what they’re arguing about. I think, fancy through that, they don’t like you know, the average person is. I mean, the average person is smart, right? Like if you, if you approach the world, like the average fan, the average person is is dumb or is like is going to be bamboozled by just, you know, whatever talking points are out there, you’ll be sorely disappointed. The average person is smart, the average baseball fans smart, they see through this, they know what’s really going on here. And I think those kinds of statements don’t get the league very far. I can really think they’d be far better off if they just said, look, we know you guys don’t, you know, agree with this necessarily. But this is business. This comes up every five years. We got to do, we got to do we’ll get back to the field as soon as we can. I really think that would be a much better position for the league to take. But instead it’s this disingenuous argument of it’s so hard to be an owner and and players are already getting too much. And I just think people see through it.

ALEX:  Right. It it is kind of like one step too far. It’s for for people to take. Harry, you’ve been really generous with your time and we really appreciate you coming on. Before we let you go, can you talk a little bit about without spoiling anything, obviously, about what is coming down the pipeline for you guys? If there’s anything that you’re working on that fans should keep an eye out for? And and if there’s anything that fans can do to engage with this and kind of help voice their support?

BOBBY:  Yeah, specifically I want to add to that like, with the sort of existential threat towards the minor leaguers with like the trimming of clubs. And like how teams have started to plant some of those seeds for limiting the total amount of minor leaguers or limiting what communities have teams. Like, how do you guys approach that and and spending it forward? Like what what is on the horizon for you guys?

HARRY:  Yeah, so, I think in terms of what’s on the horizon, you know, substantively over the next period of months in this season. It’s a lot of some of the stuff we’ve touched on, which is this fight for a livable annual salary, right, for year round pay spring training pay. For guys to actually be able to make ends meet all year round. I think a lot of our dialogue and a lot of our public facing stuff is going to be about that. And he’s going to be about centering players voices even more in that fight. Around pay, I think the other main substantive thing that you can expect us to be talking about is the implementation of the new housing policy. So we’re already seeing that, you know, despite the league’s desire for uniformity, that’s not going to happen. There are going to be teams that look at that policy and try to exploit it and put everyone in most families or everyone in hotel rooms and two guys in the room. And don’t make accommodations for guys with spouses and families. And then on the other side, there are going to be teams that do things the right way. Give every guy their own room, make accommodations, and and pay live out stipends for guys who want to live out, you know, with a significant other. And so I would expect that we will call teams out by name as those things start to happen and simply hold them accountable. If they make the right decision, we’ll say they made the right decision. They don’t, then say, you didn’t. So I think that that will happen over the course of of this year. In terms of fans, I would encourage everyone to go to our website, right? To advocatesforminorleaguers.com, to follow us on Twitter, on Instagram, right on social media. Especially our Twitter account has been a good place where, you know, we really try to hold out and, and put stuff out there when it’s worth people really engaging with, right? Like there, we hear all kinds of things, there’s all kinds of content that we could put out, you know, on an hour by hour basis. But we want it to be a place where people know when we put something out there, it’s it’s legitimate, it deserves the attention of the baseball, public as it were right. And so I really encourage people to follow that account.

BOBBY:  Every tweet from Advocates for Minor Leaguers for, I mean I imagine most people listening to Tipping Pitches are already following Advocates for Minor Leaguers. But every single tweet that you guys do is like truly an investigative report. Like you guys have done the homework, it’s like almost straight up real journalism, you know, like, this is the, this is the meal. This is what this team provided at this day. Like it’s it really is incredible work that you guys have done.

HARRY:  I appreciate that. And look, I could say that we there’s a lot of stuff that doesn’t make it out there, right? Where we say like, you know, we’re respectful of the fact we’re not trying to, you know, as I said, we’re not trying to, you know, take shots at teams for any if there’s any doubt, like we hold it back, right? If there’s any ambiguity, any sense of maybe that’s not exactly what happened, you hold it back. But so when we put it out there, we really, you know, we do stand behind it. And we want people to know, to the end of holding people accountable, holding teams accountable for their conduct. And the last thing I would say with fans is just to keep your ears out because, you know, like, that day where we had guys wearing the #FairBall wristbands, right? We were at about a dozen stadiums around the country, hosting a Fan Appreciation Day, the handing out wristbands to fans, handing out pamphlets and information to fans. I would expect more opportunities for that kind of stuff, right? For sort of public actions to raise awareness, whether it’s at minor league stadiums or in other locations. So that’s the kind of stuff where if you, if you follow us on Twitter, follow our social media and check out our website. You’ll absolutely be able to, to keep an eye on that and and be involved and support the cause in any way that that you’re able. So that’s what we’re, that’s we’re hoping for.

BOBBY:  Harry Marino, Executive Director of Advocates for Minor Leaguers. Thank you so much for joining us. I’m glad that we finally did this.

HARRY:  Thanks guys really appreciate you guys having me on.

[1:24:07]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Thank you to Harry Marino. I mean, as Tipping Pitches listeners know, the work that Advocates for Minor Leaguers is doing is among the most important work being done in the professional baseball community. We cite them all the time. We have tremendous respect for everybody working there, Harry, our friends, Matt and Ty. These people are doing the transformative organizational work that needs to be done to improve minor league labor conditions.

ALEX:  I also learned that I could have gone and played minor league baseball instead of going to journalism school and probably ended up in the same place.

BOBBY:  Working for a non [1:25:00]. I would love to see you play minor league baseball. You should give it another go. Open tryouts Alex Bazeley.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah. Pop over to a MCU Park on Coney Island so as Brooklyn Cyclones, what’s up?

BOBBY:  I think we’re better suited to pop over the MCU Park and spit some seeds–

ALEX:  [1:25:19] teen.

BOBBY:  –team what’s up? No. I was gonna say, spit some seeds and drink some beers. But we can try to get on the NYU team, I guess, we already graduated, though. I don’t think we have eligibility. Although we never played a sport while at NYU. So I think technically, we would have eligibility if we went back as as postgrads. But that would involve going $300,000 further into debt.

ALEX:  At this point, it’s just numbers–

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  –right? It’s all for a couple more zeros.

BOBBY:  Right. That’s what the Nats thought when they offered Juan Soto a $325 billion extension. It’s just numbers, he’ll say yes, right?

HARRY:  Uh-hmm, yeah.

BOBBY:  And he was like, oh, no, 27 million a year for me? No, no, thank you. Okay, we’re gonna do a a quick speed round of listener questions at the end here. Because a lot of them are collective bargaining related. So we want to address them before anything materially changes over the coming week. But before we get to any CBA ones, we got a email a few weeks ago, actually, that we forgot to respond to, from listener Eli, and he wanted to know if anything has changed or updated on the Oakland A’s stadium front. Since that was such a big theme of Tipping Pitches for a while there. Alex, I’ll turn it over to you to talk about Oakland City Council politics. bureaucratic process of the Oakland City Council.

ALEX:  Yeah, man, I’ve been mired in this stuff for months at this point. And–

BOBBY:  Some might think your whole life has been affected by–

ALEX:  Somebody rule.

BOBBY:  –my erratic policies of the Oakland City Council.

ALEX:  Yeah, it’s too bad. I decided to tune in when my favorite baseball team, was like a new new baseball stadium.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, there hasn’t been a a ton of incredibly notable progress. The most recent piece of news that actually just came out this past week was that the City Council voted to certify an environmental impact report for the the proposed Howard Terminal plan. They still need to agree on community benefits and a lot of details surrounding the actual development. And there’s still approval from quite a few other parties that that needs to happen for this project to move forward.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Including a lot of authorities that work in or around the port of Oakland. But it’s one step at least, the next step is going to be talking about those aforementioned community benefits. Dave Cavill is still going tweeting out, you know, Howard Terminal or bust.

BOBBY:  Yup.

ALEX:  Which [1:28:08] respects he’s back on his bullshit. He was not tweeting there for a while.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And he just pops in every month or so. Just–

BOBBY:  Dave where are you Dave.

ALEX:  –mind people that is still a show.

BOBBY:  Wow. Get his ass. Remember the days when we were trying to get Dave Cavill on this pod? Do you think those days have come and gone?

ALEX:  I think so. But maybe we can, we can get him once Fisher tosses on the side after the stadium–

BOBBY:  Oh–

ALEX:  –search.

BOBBY:  We get a radicalized Dave Cavill.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. If if he feels–

BOBBY:  [1:28:31]–

ALEX:  [1:28:31]

BOBBY:  –opens up. Dave Cavill breaks his silence.

ALEX:  Tells all.

BOBBY:  Yeah, uhm, I did see there was some language on the A’s website, I saw someone circulating this in the A’s Twitter fan community. Which I’m loosely a part of, because of you. Someone circulating some language that was like, if you sign up for a season ticket package this season, you will have first dibs or something at the upcoming season ticket packages at the Howard Terminal Stadium. So that’s at least like some form of a paper commitment to the idea that that is the plan, you know?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  But that’s the whole confusing part about this entire saga. It’s like they say that and then their Executives are getting on a private jet to fly to Las Vegas to tour sites. So which is guys like that building a stadium takes a full on commitment from what I understand, from what I’ve been led to believe.

ALEX:  Dave just likes the strip, man. He just likes that that Las Vegas Strip and I don’t really know what to tell you. It’s a fantastic place. Goes there to let off some steam after John Fisher is finished using under the foot rest. Like–

BOBBY:  For on the floor, for on the floor. All right, let’s move on. Uhh, let’s go to the voicemails.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hey guys, Josh here. First off, I, after eight years of teaching, I’ve finally joined the teachers union. And your show has been a big influence in that. So first, thank you. I got one question, I’ve learned so much from listening to Tipping Pitches. And it just seems like labor relations and baseball seem to be so much worse than like football, basketball, and other professional sports. Why is that? Is that the antitrust exemption? Is it, are there other factors? Or is it just you guys are bringing a huge awareness to the issues in baseball, and there’s just not as much content out there for the other leaks? Oh, love the show, and can’t wait to listen next week.

BOBBY:  First off, Josh, solidarity, congratulations on joining the teachers union. Teachers unions are great. They’re the backbone of American education, in my view. Secondly, it’s definitely not us. We are definitely not the reason that it seems like baseball, labor relations are much more at the forefront than other sports, I think it’s a combination of things. You’re not totally off, I think a lot of baseball writers are interested in talking about these things moreso, than writers for other sports. For whatever reason, all of us lefties might have just found our muse in baseball. But I I think that more so it’s that the MLB Players Association, started out as the strongest union amongst American professional sports, by far. And therefore, it necessitated more conversation around this because the owners have been trying to chip away at that, since Marvin Miller helped to create the Players Association. So the answer is, it’s more at the forefront, because players are more powerful, and therefore their union is more at the forefront of their sport than in other sports.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, and there’s a a lot more to mine, from the players, because they have been kind of hardline on some of these major issues in the past, right? And so where, whereas in other leagues, things may be a bit more calm, because the owners actually probably have a lot of what they already want.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly.

ALEX:  The I think the owners in baseball see that there’s still money to be made off of the players. And then they’ve gotten just a lot more frank and honest about that. Which hate credit to them, man, I think it makes the players job a lot easier. And it makes our job a lot easier. So you got to tip their cap your cap to them.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I think if, if another sports union took a hardline stance in the next CBA and was like no salary cap, I think it would be massive news that everybody would have to be covering at that negotiation. But that is just the thing that happened with the players 40 years ago, came up again 20, 30 years ago, 25 years ago, with the ’95 strike, and ’94-’95 strike. And therefore characterize that relationship as something that is a little bit more relevant every time a CBA comes up. There’s always the chance that it might blow up in this sport. Although I’ll say I don’t know as much about hockey and their labor relations. But hockey is the only other American sport that has like missed a full season, or missed a postseason because of a lockout or a strike. So I think if I if, in an alternate world were Alex and I really love hockey, and we bond over that fact at New York University. This podcast is about hockey, labor relations. But that alternate world is weird and doesn’t exist.

ALEX:  Yeah. Outside of NYU hockey games. We did, we did manage to bond over that.

BOBBY:  For different reasons. We bonded over a water bottle filled with whiskey at NYU hockey games. Next question.

VOICEMAIL 2:  Hey, guys, it’s Mike from Syracuse. I am calling because I have been very torn up about what to do with the upcoming minor league season. Our local team is owned by the New York Mets. And we are the New York Mets Triple-A affiliate. And I would normally love going into games, but it feels kind of scabby this year with the lockout going on. And I don’t really want to put money into Steve Cohen’s pockets if I don’t have to. That said, I know a lot of people who work over there and they’re good people who work there who obviously have no affiliation with the actual Mets. And it’s just really confusing and I’m not sure what to do and I was hoping you guys could help me out with this problem. Thanks, love the show, bye.

BOBBY:  So I think there are a few things to consider. Thank you for calling and asking this question. It’s a tough question. We’ve been asked it multiple times from multiple people haven’t yet fully addressed it on the show. But it’s something that I’ve been thinking about, as well, Alex, as I get ready to move back to New York, and you and I get ready to try and go to baseball games together and may not have New York Mets baseball games to go to? It’s a hard question. There are a few things in my mind that define how I would feel about going to minor league games. And I I would not be boycotting minor league games. I’ll start by saying that. The first reason is because I don’t think that your minor league ticket is the financial boon for Steve Cohen that will keep the Mets afloat while the lockout is going on. Like I don’t think that you will be providing that much of the supplemental income that will make it possible for the lockout to continue. I think that there is so much more money that they are getting from TV deals and stadium deals and, and advertising and marketing deals, that keeps them afloat. Other than you going to enjoy your local minor league team. That’s number one, number two, the players union has not called for you to boycott minor league games. And if they have not made the call that that is what they need, in order to break this lockout, then it becomes a slippery slope for consumers fans to start calling boycotts on their own as a way to show support for a union that hasn’t yet asked for that. And that’s not to say that you’re wrong if you don’t want to go to minor league games, because it leaves a bad taste in your mouth because of all of this. That is completely your right, but not going fully on behalf of the players union because of the lockout, I think starts to become a complicated conversation that we as fans can’t really make full on decisions in that respect.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think like you said, it’s a it’s a personal choice about you know, just how you feel about doing that. Uhm, I also think that it’s important to not, to not let owners and not let the state of baseball like sap your joy, sap the enjoyment that you get out of the game.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Because again, it’s a Minor League Baseball, especially as a huge part of a lot of smaller cities and towns across the country. And for many towns, it might be the, the, you know, one of the centers of culture there, right? So it is this kind of tightrope walk you have to take between community and Corporation.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But I think ultimately, until, as you said, until things get more dire, and there actually is some sort of picket line that has been dictated that should not be crossed. I think you’d like, do what makes you happy, you know? Like–

BOBBY:  Yeah, yeah. And you go into minor league games and buying a ticket for minor league games is more so supporting the employees that work there and bring you those minor league games. Like that money is more directly going to that club, even if it is owned by Steve Cohen, like, then ever, your dollars ever really reaching Steve Cohen himself. In my opinion, I I–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –don’t really have the numbers to verify that but that is just that’s just my guess. And if you’re going into it with open eyes, and you’re potentially wearing a Unionize the Minors shirt and saying, hey, I’m not here because I’m, I’m not here because I’m supporting the owners. I’m here because I love baseball. I’m supporting the the players who drive my love for that, then I I think that’s not okay. All right, let’s move on. Next question.

VOICEMAIL 3:  What’s up guys, found you guys podcast about a month ago. And second, I heard you guys say that the lockout wasn’t a both sides issue and that it’s an owner issue. New I found the right podcast. So kudos on the correct opinion. My question for you guys is what do you guys think the max amount of games myth that would be as the legendary Bobby Manford put it disastrous for MLB. Like, you know, if you were to look two to three years from now, you’d say yep, since I missed, you know, X amount of games MLB still hasn’t recovered from it. Like from a fan growth perspective. Curious, send you guys take love the show and keep up the good work.

BOBBY:  This is a tough question, because I do think it depends on what kind of Olive Branch they extend to fans after all of this happens. Like do they take a more holistic approach to giving a shit about fans after this? Or do they just continue the status quo of being like that sucks for you buy an NFT. Or that sucks for you bet on how many strikeouts Jacob deGrom will have tonight. Because if that’s the case, I think that like 20 games is the maximum that they can lose before this has a seriously detrimental effect on fit and growth. In a better world where they take a step back, and they realize that, oh, we really stepped in it with the with this lockout. Perhaps we should start making better faith efforts to grow fandom and continue to grow fandom at higher rates among underrepresented groups of fans. I think that they could miss like, I don’t know, half a season? The whole season? Like it it really is hard to say because there are some fans who would understand why we’re missing that much. And be okay with it. But it it just depends on whether there’s a mayhem called afterwards, in my opinion.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think I agree with that. I think that I mean, this is this is maybe like, you know, captain obvious statement, but like missing a full year would would would not be good.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  That would not be good for the sport.

BOBBY:  Yeah, it’d be really hard to recover from.

ALEX:  And I’m not just talking about the owners checkbooks. But actually, in terms of building a fan base, building trust between you and and a fan base, building trust between you and players. That really would would not be good. That would set the table in a really poor fashion. So I’m, you know, I’m hoping it doesn’t get to that point necessarily. Unless, unless that is what needs to happen. In which case, you know, you and I will still be here. It’s we will find, we will find Rob Manfred quotes to talk about even if there is no baseball season.

BOBBY:  Let’s make up Rob Manfred quotes.

ALEX:  Can you tell the difference? Probably not.

BOBBY:  It’s parody. He can’t sue us. Okay, last question.

VOICEMAIL 4:  Hey, guys, Joe, here from actually pictures on Twitter. I have a question. Am I the only one who’s disappointed the Players Association isn’t taking a bigger swing? They asked for one year of team control and like, immediately dropped it in the first round of negotiating. Like, why would they ask for two or three years less team control, and then let MLB talk him down? I don’t really know when the last time they had this kind of public sport and play player solidarity. Maybe I’m reading that wrong. Maybe the public hates the lockout. But I haven’t really seen anything drastic in the player proposals. I was kind of expecting more, what give? Thanks, fellas.

BOBBY:  Uhm, I mean, this goes back to what we talked about when I was talking about pulling expanded playoffs off the table, right? Like they’ve they’ve taken the strategy of here, we’re going to give you a proposal wherever you want it to be pretty damn close to this. And we’re just going to hold our line. And I think they’ve done that because they know if they put a proposal across the table that was like no more service time. Every player makes X, you’re immediately eligible for free agency, no draft, all that stuff at the owners would have just put their PR machine into place. And it would have been extremely effective, because it’s already been effective, even with these modest proposals, as Joe lays out. So yeah, I mean, I’m disappointed. I’m disappointed that the state of labor, in baseball, and in America, under capitalism. If you go back a year or two, in our state of labor and baseball conversation, I think you’ll probably hear me advocating for players to strike for 2, 3, 4 years if it blows up the entire ownership structure of baseball. But there’s like 100 of us that actually believe that and the rest of fans don’t. So I think that that probably answers your question. Am I right there, Alex? 

ALEX:  Yeah, I’d I’d love for them to shoot for the moon and land among the stars as you put it so eloquently.

BOBBY:  I think first time I said–

ALEX:  Pie in the sky–

BOBBY:  –pie in the sky, landed on the mountain.

ALEX:  –pie a pie in the mountain. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Just sounds like a good weekend trip. Some pie in the mountain. [1:44:27] Lakeside cabin.

ALEX:  I think they probably recognized that they needed to put forth a somewhat serious proposal for the owners to really take them seriously. Like I I think they kind of recognize the bounds, the boundaries within which they are working and negotiating. I think it’s also probably worth noting that the players are likely not as militant or politically invested in this fight as maybe the average listener of this podcast is, right?

BOBBY:  Absolutely, true.

ALEX:  I mean–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –we can, we can expect or we can, we can want the players to, like, go for it all, you know, to go for the farm. But, but it’s just, it’s just not going to it’s not going to happen. And I think they they know who they’re negotiating with on the other side of the table. And yeah, I think that’s where we live right now. You know, maybe the next generation of ballplayers. Maybe the next generation of Gen Z players is, we’ll be ready to to burn it all down–

BOBBY:  Down with–

ALEX:  –who knows.

BOBBY:  –the system, bro.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Down with the system. The generation of ballplayers raised on Tipping Pitches listening to this pod every day–

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  –on the way to baseball practice, hell yeah. The stated position of this podcast is it would be better for baseball in the long run. If the players went on strike until they completely broke the owners and got them out of baseball. There are approximately five players that you could find who would agree with that even in private. Let alone and publicly reported on labor negotiations. So yeah, I think that you’re, I think that you’re right there, Alex. I believe we are officially out of time on this very long, very bloated podcast. But thank you to everybody who stuck it out until the end. If you want to call into our voicemail. Have your voicemail played on the podcast. Like these ones. The number is 785-422-5881. If you want to acquire some Tipping Pitches merch, proceeds of the Unionize the Minors merch go towards More Than Baseball, you can do that @tiny.cc/nationalize. Reach out to us otherwise tippingpitchespod@gmail.com, tipping_pitches on Twitter. Like I said, we’ll be back this week if there’s a CBA or we’ll be back next Monday. If there’s not, we will be talking about how, oh oh, looks like we might get a delay to the season. Anything else that the listeners need to know Alex before we get out of here?

ALEX:  July 29, 2021, then Brooklyn Borough President, Eric Adams.

BOBBY:  Oh yeah, here we go.

ALEX:  Catches, catches the the first pitch at a New York Metropolitans game from his son. And he says, “Every Mets fan, every Mets fan.”

BOBBY:  Every.

ALEX:  “Dreams dreams of throwing a first pitch at Citi Field, Shea Stadium before that, for those of us who are OG fans.

BOBBY:  He’s a Mets fan? Dang, he has–

ALEX:  I guess.

BOBBY:  He has like tried and true Yankees fan New Yorker energy to me.

ALEX:  Right. I mean, he’s because he’s a cop.

BOBBY:  No, cuz he’s a cop that allegedly lives in New York City.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Cops who live on Long Island are Mets fans?

ALEX:  Yes, exactly.

BOBBY:  That’s a distinction. Okay, thank you for listening to Tipping Pitches and getting that very important knowledge in the outro of this podcast. We appreciate you all very much. Tell someone to listen to this podcast. And we’ll be back next week. Bye.

[1:48:14]

[Music]

[1:48:29]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodFebruary 24, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:eric kay trial, matt harvey, mlb, MLB CBA, MLB lockout, new york mets, Podcast, Rob Manfred, terry collins, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on The Minor League Theory of Value (feat. Harry Marino)	
Owners Just Wanna Have Fun

Bobby and Alex fantasize about players who they’d love to see juicing, then dive into the latest in MLB showing their behinds, including Rob Manfred’s apparent contempt for baseball fans and the league’s refusal to compensate minor leaguers for spring training. They round things out with listener voicemails about high socks and low socks, the conflicting labor interests of players owning teams, and the possibility of optimism.

Links:

MLB won’t pay minor leaguers for spring training 

Songs featured in this episode:

Cyndi Lauper — “Girls Just Wanna Have Fun” • Radiohead — “Optimistic” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”

Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

ALEX:  Bobby, we’re back for another, another week’s roundup of Rob Manfred quotes that make absolutely no sense. You’re ready to do an hour on this?

BOBBY:  Yeah, this is all I prepared for.

ALEX:  There’s been plenty of of developments and and lack of developments in the CBA negotiations over the weekend. So we’re we’re definitely going to get to all of that. But before we do, I want to ask you something that has, that has nothing to do with CBA negotiations they stand. I guess they it tangentially does. So I I don’t know if you if you saw this, but for the first time in 20 years, there is no drug testing going on right now, right?

BOBBY:  Oh yes, I I did see this.

ALEX:  Because there is no CBA, right, of of which the the joint drug use prevention. Some combination of those words, anyway, they’re not testing for steroids.

BOBBY:  Uh-huh.

ALEX:  And so I’m curious, Bobby, if you had to pick a player to show up to spring training, just absolutely jacked. Taking advantage of of the the lack of testing. Obviously, we’re we’re talking hypotheticals here, because as soon as they come to an agreement, they’re just going to resume testing. So no player sees this as a as as having free rein, but–

BOBBY:  Don’t get ahead of yourself. There might be some players, there’s this having free rein.

ALEX:  But who do you want to to take that next–

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  –step?

BOBBY:  Yeah. So it’s, who do I want? Not Who do I think might actually do this?

ALEX:  Right. Yes. Who would be most enjoyable to see hooked up to have like 70 grade power all of a sudden? I don’t know where?

BOBBY:  Interesting question because the way that you phrase that the end there, pulls it in a different direction than I was planning on going. I was going to double down on someone’s power. Like I–

ALEX:  Mmm, okay.

BOBBY:  –was gonna say, you know what? We could get you on assess, but it’s back in the league. Do some up.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Do some up. Or similarly, Miguel Cabrera bring his power back.

ALEX:  Oh, God, yeah.

BOBBY:  You know, just give him one last great season, with it, with via HGH, he deserves that, you know. And they couldn’t even use that as an excuse to keep them out of the Hall of Fame. Because he did it when there was no rule.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Although, I guess–

BOBBY:  Technically there was no rule when [2:52] Bonds and Rodriguez and all those guys that are being kept out of the Hall of Famer, accused.

ALEX:  That certainly be great to Topaz Mickey’s resume, get them up to like 550 home runs. I mean, he’s already a shoo in for the the Hall of Fame. So he doesn’t really need it.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  The direction that my head went in was like, who is, who is like one of the best contact hitters in the league right now, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  Who maybe has a bit of power in the bat that is, that hasn’t been unlocked yet. But an extra 10-15 feet on there flyballs is gonna start, you know, really making them waves and move league right. So I thought of a guy like Michael Brantley, who has an incredible hit tool, and it’s just an incredible hitter all around. And if he starts to pop in, like 35 home runs [3:40]–

BOBBY:  Yeah [3:40] MVP.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly. Or one Brandon Nimmo. Oh, who already, who already has the, the bonds walk rate. He’s already, he’s already getting on base.

BOBBY:  Not quite, but yeah.

ALEX:  Not quite. No one, no one can ever really.

BOBBY:  See if you, if you juiced up Michael Brantley, he would just hit doubles to the gap harder. I don’t think he would hit home runs, I think a lot of flyball, you know. Nimmo is not a bad one.

ALEX:  [4:04] swing adjustment.

BOBBY:  Nimmo was not a bad one, because he gets a lot of flight balls.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  He doesn’t get any other kinds of hits. So that’s a good answer.

ALEX:  I’m, I’m just trying to imagine like an absolutely beefed up like 250 pound Brandon Nimmo doing his sprint, sprint around the bases.

BOBBY:  He’s been big already, he’s like–

ALEX:  I know.

BOBBY:  –underratedly large unreal.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Why don’t, why are we even playing around? Let’s just give Shohei Ohtani and see what happens.

ALEX:  Oh my God. Right.

BOBBY:  Throwing 106 exit velocity 125

ALEX:  Just absolutely pushing the limits of what is humanly possible.

BOBBY:  How quickly it is, do these things go into effect, you know. Like, could someone get really jacked in the next 10 days?

ALEX:  Right. Do you have to think like three months ahead?

BOBBY:  I think you do. I think you do.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  Good question.

ALEX:  Unfortunately, we don’t have much insight into the actual regimen. But that might need to be our next investigative piece is how do you properly do steroids?

BOBBY:  All right, here’s, here’s the pitch, here’s the pitch.

ALEX:  Okay.

BOBBY:  I’m moving back to New York, in two weeks. We start doing HGH and lifting before every part and reporting back on what happens to us over the course of the 2022 baseball season.

ALEX:  I’m with it.

BOBBY:  Yeah?

ALEX:  That is an incredible

BOBBY:  2022–

ALEX:  –experiment.

BOBBY:  –year of the bulk on Tipping Pitches.

ALEX:  See, I was thinking of, maybe trying to greenies or something like that, you know. Like–

BOBBY:  [5:38]

ALEX:  –well like, you know, give you that [5:41]–

BOBBY:  Like before the pot?

ALEX:  Like before the pot. Can you imagine if we just went out it went in here like wired? I know you, you’re, you’re in the middle of drinking a coffee. That is four shots of espresso. So you’re not–

BOBBY:  It’s not that out of the ordinary though. I did run around in the snow this morning. It’s snowing in Pennsylvania.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. Yeah, here in New York as well.

BOBBY:  To wake myself up.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm. It’s that’s you and Stevie, your dog do the same thing.

BOBBY:  You might hear my dog on this podcast because she’s not used to all the sounds in my parents home. So she barks more frequently, even then, our apartment in Los Angeles. Okay, so we’re juicing up half the best players in the league and half the semi-washed players in the league just to see what happens.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Well [6:23] can we get Nick Mattrick–Nick Madrigal some some HGH? [6:26]

ALEX:  [6:26] he was on my list as well.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Luisa Rice like–

BOBBY:  When you asked me that question. I was like, o-oh, brief panic, brief panic. Because I had to think of baseball player names.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  It’s not something I’ve had to do for the last three months.

ALEX:  Right. I think that’s the first time we’ve mentioned some baseball names on this podcast.

BOBBY:  We went on a Philadelphia podcast last week. And they were like, we want to talk about the Phillies and we want to talk about John Middleton. So I’m like as soon as the podcast is starting firing up the old Google–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –searching Phillies depth chart.

ALEX:  Yep.

BOBBY:  Just to make sure–

ALEX:  Top release prospects.

BOBBY:  Phillies depth chart. Phillies, the team that my team plays 19 times a year. Mike, can I, can I name more than, more than four players on the Phillies?

ALEX:  You know, I think that–

BOBBY:  Who was that guy who crushed the can, the energy drink can? When he was running in who was that guy? 

ALEX:  That’s right, JoJo Romero. You know, I–

BOBBY:  [7:22]

ALEX:  –think, I think that says more about the Phillies and and the state of their roster than it does about you as a baseball fan. I think–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –most, most fans are probably in the same boat.

BOBBY:  Who just like a couple gimmies on there.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  When everybody else and like, man, Didi Gregorious is still on the Phillies?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  There’s a guy I used to think about way more.

ALEX:  I know, right? Huh, love him. Although isn’t he, isn’t he like it, like anti-vaxxer. Didn’t he has some questionable COVID takes?

BOBBY:  He–

ALEX:  What baseball player hasn’t, I guess.

BOBBY:  –claimed that the vaccine gave him some injury–

ALEX:  Oh, right.

BOBBY:  –[7:54]. But that’s, that’s neither here nor there. We’re now completely off the rails in the in the intro to the podcast.

ALEX:  Hook up with Nicki Minaj, his cousin.

BOBBY:  Nicki Minaj’s cousin if you’re listening, reach out to Didi. Uhm, all right, well, we do have some news on the CBA front, as you alluded to. The MLB put forth a 130 page, full CBA proposal to the Union yesterday, as we sit here and record this on Sunday. There was also some shenanigans about whether or not MLB should have to pay Minor League players for coming to spring training and working. They may have a couple listener questions to do at the end. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[8:44]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  I think getting really into lifting and HGH would be a great bit, particularly for you.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Just out of nowhere to start, start going on forums, bodybuilder–

ALEX:  You know–

BOBBY:  –forums.

ALEX:  –should I become like a like a fitness influencer?

BOBBY:  I think you could. Here’s the thing about you.

ALEX:  Yes. Tell me the thing about me.

BOBBY:  There are many things about you, all of which are phenomenal. The thing about you is that you could be good at pretty much anything if you just put your mind to it, you know?

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s the, yeah, the human condition.

BOBBY:  I have, I have faith in you. I’ve seen you become good at things you had no idea how to do, like host a podcast.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  Or like make a website, code a website, you know. All this stuff, you just teach yourself.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  It’s not like you studied these things. So yeah, you could become a fitness influencer pretty easily. If you really committed to the bit I think two years or less. Because you could get some really good before and after pictures.

ALEX:  Right. I was just about to say everyone loves the the like the showing of progress, you know. And boy do I have some, some progress that I should be making. People are gonna be like, wow, how, how’d you get that much out of that little?

BOBBY:  We could spend quite the tail. You know, you hated how much you were just sitting stagnant–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –in the pandemic, doing jobs where you’re just not active. Hosting a podcast, sitting around talking. So you decided to take back the reins of your life. That’s what you decided to do.

ALEX:  Yeah, you know, I mean, I, I I have this, this little podcast that I do, Tipping Pitches. And and as of, as of late, my, my girlfriend has started, started a food Instagram on my behalf of dishes that I’m making. So I’m really just–

BOBBY:  Plug it.

ALEX:  –like–

BOBBY:  You got to plug that. [10:39]–

ALEX:  I’m, I’m–you know, you know, you know, you know. Uhm, but I’m really just going all in on the, on the influencer route these days.

BOBBY:  Those two things could really inform each other, you know. You have, you have the, the meals you make to talk about the bulk.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And then you have the workout routine. But the one missing piece, which will tie it all back to the intro of this podcast is where the fuck do you get HGH?

ALEX:  I yeah.

BOBBY:  I don’t know where. You got to know guy.

ALEX:  I would, I think so, right? I mean, there are certain types of I think, over the counter drugs that like do have, you know, marginally the same effects. But obviously not nearly to the magnitude that just injecting that shit straight into your veins would do.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm, uh-hmm.

ALEX:  I don’t know. I wonder if I could ask my doctor out of curiosity.

BOBBY:  Well, we know Alex Rodriguez is listening.

ALEX:  That’s true. Uh-hmm. Although I’m sure he’s disavowed any, any any links to steroids as of late.

BOBBY:  Okay, your burgeoning influencer career side, Alex. We did have some other news from this past week that is slightly more relevant to Tipping Pitches interest. MLB passed back a full CBA proposal to the Union, 130 pages. But before we start breaking down the details of that proposal, as relevant or irrelevant, as they are as Groundhog Day, as they’re making us feel. I wanted to talk to you about one Robert D. Manfred, Commissioner of Major League Baseball. Who I will say, how do I put it politely on a podcast and flamed the larger baseball public this past week. When he decided to give a press conference from the Major League Baseball owners meeting, which is currently happening in in Disney World. Since, why is it happening at Disney World? I never really understood that. I think it’s just happening–

ALEX:  Wow, wow. You don’t think that owners deserve to have a little bit of fun too?

BOBBY:  But that’s the thing. If owners want to have fun, why are they choosing Disney World? Like what fun is there for owners? Is it because that’s, that’s the only class of people that can actually afford to go have fun Disney World? Disneyworld is actually not designed for children, it was designed for 60 year old billionaires.

ALEX:  Yes, exactly. Billionaires do just want to have fun. It’s true.

BOBBY:  How would you describe Bob’s press conference? Because I’m I’m I’m struggling for a way to describe it to listeners who didn’t follow us on Twitter, or see the quotes as they were coming out in real time. And everybody was really getting mad zero to 100 very quickly. He he kind of just spoke to the media to to lie for 30 minutes about the state of baseball ownership and the state of financial interests in the game. So that he could try to bend public will towards the owners amidst this lockout. I don’t know if there’s any other way to categorize what he did last week.

ALEX:  Yeah, it was a real banner week for quotes coming out of MLB camp. I mean, you can have your pick of the lot and I’m sure we’ll we’ll dive into and pick apart some of the more choice quotes. But it really, it harkens back to a time when, when we had a president not too long ago. Who was, who was known for very obviously getting up on stage and lying in the media. Would struggle to really define what it is he was actually saying. Trying to maintain a a veneer of objectivity and you know if he’s going up there and and speaking falsehoods about the state of the game, you know. I he is delivering alternative facts–

BOBBY:  [14:34]

ALEX:  –from from, yeah exactly. But that’s really like what it reminded me of is a guy who’s going up there and lying and kind of knowing that he is lying, but understanding that it suits the narrative that he’s trying to push.

BOBBY:  It’s particularly frustrating to us because we spend so much time on this show trying to like parse these words, parse these concepts, parse media’s reaction to them. Is that there probably is, like the smallest kernel of truth–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –in what Rob was saying. And I guess we should provide a little bit of context for the people who didn’t see his press conference, see the quotes getting streamed out. The one that really, I think kicked it all off was when Rob said that quote, historically, the return is, the return for owning a baseball team is below what you’d expect to get in the stock market. And I think that this set people off for a lot of reasons, but before I break them down. It’s frustrating to people who pay attention, because it’s so obvious that he’s lying. But it’s even more nefarious when you dig more into it. Because I think that there is a whole subset of people who see that quote, and they’ll be like, that’s probably true, and never think again about it. And so he knows that it’s worth pissing off the people who know that it’s false. Because that is such, such a small subset of baseball fans, that the lie is then worth it. Which is why he keeps going up there and telling lies like this. And when he was pressed about the facts behind that statement, the facts that could make that statement possibly true enough for the Commissioner of baseball, to go up there and tell it to the media, amidst an owner’s lockout. He said, they conducted an internal study with an investment banker, who he wouldn’t name. Like the lack of accountability, the lack of transparency, it it makes those phrases look irre–like it makes those phrases look, not even worth speaking out loud on a podcast. Like that is so such a slap in the face. We conducted a study with our own hired investment banker, and he said, actually, it’s really really convenient the results we found guys. It’s actually way worse to own a baseball team than to invest in the stock market. And then Rob was like, it’s a good idea to go say this out loud.

ALEX:  It just displays such contempt for the fans of the game. And frankly, the the media who is covering the game, that he would have the confidence to go out there and say this sort of thing. And, you know, just a couple of weeks ago, The Athletic published a, a story that actually investigated this very point. That showed that like over the last couple of decades or whatever the the, you know. Own ML–investments in MLB teams have far outpaced the S&P 500, right?

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  And so it’s it’s you know, it’s remarkable that key, because I’m sure that he has minion to keep tabs on everything that’s being talked about in the media and and why he would see this [17:47]–

BOBBY:  You don’t think it was him listening to MLB Network when he decided to kick Ro–Ken Rosenthal out? You think that he had some minions that really maybe forwarded that one to him on email?

ALEX:  A part of me thinks that maybe he is a bit masochistic and and just enjoys reading the The Athletic articles that point out his obvious lies.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Oh, right. Because Rosenthal wrote his his criticism and [18:11]. Not not on MLB Network. So does that mean there’s a there’s a small chance, small sliver of a chance he’s listen to this podcast right now?

ALEX:  You know, I I don’t know if he’s listened to it, he might be aware of it.

BOBBY:  All right, let’s not toot our own horn too much. I don’t think he’s aware of it. Anyway–

ALEX:  [18:28]

BOBBY:  –get back to your point, back to your point.

ALEX:  But, you don’t even need a study like that, to prove that that this is false, right? Yo,u we instinctively know that owning MLB team is a good investment. You can just look at the increase in franchise valuation over the the period of time in which you own a team. You can just look at the number of billionaires who line up to purchase an MLB team when one goes up for sale. Even the the Wilpons, for example–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –who notoriously screwed over the the franch–the Mets franchise, due to how I say this politely, getting swindled with outside investments.

BOBBY:  You know I was reading, I was reading the Wikipedia page for Bernie Madoff not that long ago, just in my free time.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And there are some people who speculate that the Wilpons didn’t actually even lose any money. They just use the idea that they lost money to be cheaper with the Mets and make even more money. Some–

ALEX:  I love that–

BOBBY:  people think that–

ALEX:  –conspiracy theory.

BOBBY:  –Fred Wilpon made money on the Bernie Madoff thing. Which, like my whole world was flipped on its head when I read that.

ALEX:  I know. I mean, the thing about that is it it requires giving them a lot of credit for being financial masterminds. Which I don’t know that I’m willing, I’m willing to do given just the the fail son legacy over there.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But it also, like billionaires have done weirder things, you know?

BOBBY:  Yeah, I mean, I could see them letting that persona fester and then they’re just doubling up their money behind the curtains..

ALEX:  Right. At a certain point, once you put the narrative out there, it takes on a life of its own. You don’t even need–

BOBBY:  It’s like [20:14]

ALEX:  –to keep perpetuating it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. Uhm, I’ll just follow up, Travis Sawchik is the one who tweeted this quote from Rob Manfred when I saw it first. And Travis followed up to that tweet and said, “Since 2002, S&P 500 return: +308%. And MLB team values: are +564%. Now Rob went on to clarify that their internal assessment includes money put into clubs by owners. Which we don’t have access to that information. I struggled to imagine why they wouldn’t make that information public unless that information led to us seeing how much money they’re actually pocketing.

ALEX:  And unless it contradicts the statements that are being given.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly. I seriously doubt that they used public funds toward stadiums to increase their return on investment, you know what I mean? Like in their calculation, I seriously doubt that taxpayer money was counted as money for owner X. Even though it is a subsidy to their investment. And the part that’s so frustrating, I thought that Jake and Jordan at Céspedes BBQ had a really smart, immediate response. Which was that, aside from the fact that this is untrue, it’s also not what we’re talking about here. These are already the guys who own baseball teams. They already chose to own baseball teams, you’re the Commissioner of Baseball, if you want to make more money in the stock market, go do it. Go do it. Nobody–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –is stopping you. Literally no fan would stop their team owner from selling the team.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Like what fan would be like? No, we’ve loved your ownership rain so much. If you sell the team, everything is ruined. No fan would do that. So what did, I just don’t, I [22:01]–

ALEX:  John John Fisher’s grown on me.

BOBBY:  I struggled to understand well, maybe Mets fans would try to stop Steve Cohen [22:09]–

ALEX:  Honestly, yeah.

BOBBY:  –but we’ve talked about their sicko shit. But I struggled to understand what Rob Manfred thought he was accomplishing with this. And how he didn’t foresee this immediately blowing up and starting a new cycle. But maybe, I mean, maybe he’s playing the three dimensional chess. If the new cycle is about me, it’s not about our shity proposal that we’re about to give in 48 hours.

ALEX:  Yeah, there’s, there’s certainly no baseball fan that’s like, I really wish our owner was getting a better ROI, on this baseball team, you know. We haven’t been very good but I’m wondering what this does to my owners overall bottom line? No fan is like, I wish owners treated my baseball team more like a stock. More like an asset purely tied to its dollar value.

BOBBY:  I know.

ALEX:  Regardless of how the product itself is actually doing.

BOBBY:  The fact that he’s even drawing this comparison is like, where are we? And what are we doing? And what dimension have we slipped into? It shouldn’t be the same, but it is. And you’re admitting it by saying these are the things that owners are weighing in their decisions.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  The last thing I’ll say on the stock market comment and then I know you have a couple other comments, a couple other quotes that you’d like to read from Rob and Major League Baseball. But the last thing that I’ll say is, and I, and I tweeted a thread about this, as I’m want to do to organize my thoughts before we record this podcast. It’s just a, it’s an extraneous hypothetical, just start talking about the stock market. Because in the stock market, you actually have to have the money to buy the stocks. Like you actually have to buy the stocks to make the money. Whereas in Baseball, you can take out a loan, like try taking out a billion dollar loan and being like, I’m just gonna put it into the stock market, see what the bank says to you then. But if you say I’m gonna take out a billion dollar loan, and buy a baseball team, oh, look, you have a baseball team. Because the bank knows that Baseball is a guaranteed moneymaker.

ALEX:  It’s it’s too big to fail.

BOBBY:  It’s an anti trust exempt 30 business collusion racket, that is America’s pastime, that fans keep coming back to no matter what. That local cable will fork over $100 million a year to fill their airtime. Thanks in all that stuff. And that’s why, and so two billionaires, sort of the billionaires that by the team. And so does Rob is the most frustrating part. And he knows all that stuff. And then he goes up there and gets press conferences like this, because he thinks that fans are too stupid to realize it.

ALEX:  I just love the notion that Rob Manfred, the man in charge of baseball, is getting up there and saying, yes, this product that I am in charge of is a bad investment. You should not be investing in the sport that I run. Oh, okay. So you’re bad at your job job. Like if, if you’re, if your job is to look out for the best interests of the owners, and you are saying that baseball is an incredibly risky, volatile, pour investment. What does that, what does that say about you and your job? If it is true,

BOBBY:  Yeah. But this is the kind of mental gymnastics that you have to do to try to make it seem like you have any ground to be standing on when you’re fighting over money in a labor negotiation, right? When you’re the owner side, and there are 30 of you, and you’re splitting half of the $15 billion dollars that MLB makes per year or more than half. And you’re bullying local governments into giving you sweetheart deals for stadiums, and your antitrust exemption. And you refuse to pay minor leaguers. And you make billions of dollars in other industries, in a lot of cases. This is the kind of mental gymnastics that you have to do to even slightly skew the playing field in the public to be able to act like you should be arguing for more money in a CBA negotiation. Because it’s ludicrous, man, it’s ludicrous. If Rob came out and actually said the truth of what’s going on. They’d get steamrolled by the public, which is why they won’t ever actually release any of that financial information.

ALEX:  It’s pretty remarkable, how much time we can get out of, out of like a 20-word quote from Rob Manfred, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Does he realized his quotes are just fodder for an entire segments on our podcast?

BOBBY:  He’s the never ending fountain of Tipping Pitches content. Were there other quotes that you wanted to read from Rob, from Major League Baseball?

ALEX:  Well, there was another flat out lie that he said that, you know, may offer us an opportunity to kind of discuss what was in the actual proposals. Which I think you have the details for, and we can go into real quick. But he–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –but he said, tax rates are the status quo, he’s referring to the most recent proposal, tax rates are the status quo. They’re the same rates that are in the expired agreement. That’s a, that’s, that’s not, that’s not true. Not, not close to true. If you’ve actually been reading the reports that have come out. Again, I’ll let you do the dirty work of revealing the details. But MLB would like to double the penalties for going over to the competitive balance tax threshold. That just doesn’t read to me as being, quote, the status quo. If you present something that is different from the thing that existed prior to right now, that feels like a new proposal.

BOBBY:  Maybe, maybe he mixed up what he was actually talking about, Alex. Maybe the status quo he was referring to was the actual competitive bounce tax number. He’d like to keep the status quo there. Because MLB’s response on the competitive balance tax threshold, was, instead of the $214 million threshold for the first three years, and then 216 million and 220 million that they had proposed previously. They decided to give the generous 214 million for the first two years, then 216, then 218 than 222. They went up $2 million, they went, they went up 2 million. Let me just say that one more time, $2 million, which wouldn’t even come close to covering inflation? Like when we’re talking about sums of money this high, like $2 million over the lifespan of a CBA. It’s laughable, like the teams, the big money teams that this is supposed to be affecting, like the Dodgers and Mets. The Yankees are a different story. But like the Dodgers and Mets and the Red Sox, they frequently when they do choose to go over it and stop treating it like a salary cap, which it’s not designed to be. They blow well past it, as has been much documented. Like they use that argument out of the other side of their mouth. They’re like, well, teams are spending way over it just goes to show that the threshold should be higher, right? But then they propose something because they want to keep treating it like a de facto salary cap. They propose something that is not different at all, really. And then yes, like you said, the penalty for going over it. They’ve decided to eliminate draft pick penalties for going over. Instead, they’ve opted to propose something that would be a stiffer financial penalty for going over the competitive balance tax which you would pay a 50% penalty for how far you go over and then a 75% penalty in the in the repeating year. And then a 100% penalty for how far you go over. So if you go $10 million over in the third year, you pay a $10 million fine, essentially. In addition to $10 million, that you’re already paying over the tax, you know. So that is, as you laid out very different from the status quo, and they want to, they want to keep the status quo and revenue sharing is what they’re saying to. So they don’t want to change the amount of revenue sharing that goes to smaller clubs, which the Union, as we’ve discussed, does want to change. Because they want to disincentivize profitable losing. So I don’t know, there there are other elements of this CBA proposal that are, I guess, slightly interesting. They’re only each side is only moving $5 million on the pre arbitration bonus pool, which means we’re going to be here until July. Before they actually get to a number that they can agree on at this rate. MLB hilariously continues to say, we’ll reward ourselves if we don’t manipulate service time through their proposals by putting something in the CBA proposal that says they’ll get to draft picks within the players first three years, if he finishes in the top three, three in Cy Young, Rookie of the Year, or MVP voting. So they’re giving themselves an extra draft picks for not manipulating service time.

ALEX:  So funny.

BOBBY:  Yeah. But again, I I find it not as useful to discuss every single detail of the CBA. Because we don’t know the details with which they’re being proposed, until we actually get one. From a more general sense, Alex, was there anything coming out of this weekend that makes you feel any different about where we are in terms of the baseball calendar?

ALEX:  Not really, I I mean, I think that, I think people were obviously hoping that coming out of Saturday, there would be significant progress or that they’d be much closer to a deal. I don’t think that they were ever actually going to agree on something on Saturday. They were never going to actually come to a deal that they both agree on this. The the realistic expectation is that maybe they would make progress, or the league would make concessions, or they would start to find more middle ground. Which that didn’t even really happen. As we saw the union was quote, very underwhelmed.

BOBBY:  Although Rob made sure to remind people smugly that they’re one big breakthrough away from a deal. Were always one big breakthrough away from the deal.

ALEX:  Yeah. [32:38]–

BOBBY:  I wonder, I wonder who has the ability to kind of burst through to break through as he’s describing which side has the chance there?

ALEX:  Yeah, what would that, what would that mean? What would that break through look like?

BOBBY:  Right. Yeah. I don’t know. Oh, well.

ALEX:  The the lock, the lockout can end at any time, just your your weekly reminder. There’s one, there’s one side who’s keeping a lockout in place. As far as the timeline that we’re on, again, I don’t think like things have changed from where they were last week or two weeks ago, the league still probably has about two weeks or so, right? Spring training starts at the beginning of March, we’re at the midpoint of February are close to it. If if you know, if we don’t have a deal by March 1st, that’s the point at which I think you were past the threshold of having a full season, right.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  At this point, it already seems you know, quote, unquote, “in jeopardy”. But it’s so hard to kind of prognosticate and read tea leaves when we really don’t actually know what’s going on behind closed doors. So it’s, it’s a fool’s errand to try and make predictions about it. But I you know, as a fan, I think you kind of just have to be in a holding pattern right now. And just keep your fingers crossed. And and not just because I’m supposed to go to a bachelor party in spring training. So that would just you know, crossing my fingers there for multiple reasons.

BOBBY:  Wow, really making the macro micro for yourself there.

ALEX:  I love that.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  You know what? I am, I’m a single issue voter.

BOBBY:  I don’t where it hurts the bachelor parties being hosted at spring training. Rob, won’t Rob think of the bachelor parties. Uhm, Manfred keeps repeatedly saying, it would be disastrous for them to lose games. And I’m like how disastrous we talking?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Put, put some context behind that. Rob. How disastrous would it be for owners because we know how to, quote unquote, “disastrous” it would be for players. We know how much players make, we know how much they would lose. We know how much they’re giving up by wanting to get a CBA. How much are you guys willing to give up? And also, there’s something so sleazy about the way that he keeps saying it would be disastrous for us to lose games. Knowing that that is like the go to line for fans and for media who don’t want to have to think too critically about this. Who are like, oh, just be so bad for the game. Be so so bad for the game to lose games, Alex, millionaires and billionaires just can’t they can’t figure it out. And you know who gets hurt? It’s the little guy.

ALEX:  Little guy.

BOBBY:  The little guy, the one who wants to host his bachelor party at spring training. That guy’s not getting his deposit back. Uhm, speaking of spring training, I’m glad you brought that up unless there is anything else that you want to talk about from the CBA?

ALEX:  No, I don’t think so. The the the the final quote, I think is the, is the one that speaks to this, this topic that we are about to discuss. So I’ll let you, I let you take it away.

BOBBY:  Spring trainings coming up, beginning of March. Currently, the Major League players, I’m not sure if you’ve heard they’re locked out, from that spring training, they’re not allowed to attend legally. Because the owners have orchestrated a lockout, defend defensive lockout against those players. Stay away, we’re playing defense from you guys. You guys are just gonna come in. Players who are not locked out of spring training Alex, the only labor pool who is not locked out of spring training, who actually plays baseball games in spring training, that’s minor leaguers. So it would seem to me that their value is higher than ever, as it relates to spring training. That is just a theory that I would posit towards you, my friend, Alex, and the listeners of the Tipping pitches Podcast. That theory is not shared by Rob Manfred, and Major League Baseball, as according to an Evan Drellich tweet and article, Major League Baseball is arguing, quote, “It is the players that obtain the greater benefit from the training opportunities that they are afforded than the clubs, who actually just incur the cost of having to provide that training.” Therefore, minor leaguers will not be paid or should not be paid for attending spring training, and doing their job of baseball at spring training. Alex, does that, does that argument hold up for you?

ALEX:  There is nothing that people who own an MLB team love more than complaining about all the tasks that it takes to own a baseball team. Like paying your employees, training your input. Like what is the [37:51]–

BOBBY:  Building stadiums.

ALEX:  –that they not that you thought you were getting into?

BOBBY:  Oh, my God, I know.

ALEX:  They are incurring the cost of having to provide that training. Yes, yep. That’s kind of that’s kind of the deal here.

BOBBY:  Been this way since Branch Rickey, been this way for a long time. You incur the cost of training baseball players so that they can get really good at baseball. And then you can get your return on investment. Once they’re really good. And a bunch of people want to buy their jerseys and watch them play baseball. That’s the business right there. For anybody listening who wants to own a baseball team, that’s it, that’s the business model. Should we also just never pay them then? Because it costs money to hold games. Should, they just shouldn’t get paid at all then.

ALEX:  Well, I mean, they’re getting paid an experience.

BOBBY:  Actually, now the more that I think about it, I I do think playing baseball should be an unpaid internship. Because if you get really good at baseball, then you can just like become a motivational speaker.

ALEX:  Why make any money doing anything because you are gaining the currency of knowledge in in your field. And that my friend, you cannot put $1 [38:56]

BOBBY:  Right. And if you invest that knowledge back into yourself, that’s a foolproof and bet, that’s the stock that always goes up.

ALEX:  So true. I’m waiting. I’m waiting for A. Rod’s vlog about this.

BOBBY:  Okay, but seriously, though, how you can possibly try to not pay minor leaguers for being the only ones who are going to show up to spring training? Because you locked out the major leaguers. That is truly mind blowing to me. It’s beyond comprehension. It’s it’s completely beyond comprehension. And just goes to show that these people have genuinely not one ounce of shame in their bodies.

ALEX:  You know, who makes money off of spring training games is team owners. That’s when they start losing paychecks. So the idea that they are quote, in incurring the costs of training without, you know, neglecting to mention that they are also receiving the profits that said players, said interns are are making for them, is it’s a joke.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  It’s a joke.

BOBBY:  Sorry. As long as we’re saying stuff I’m incurring the cost of working.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  So pay me, like, what what are you talking about? We could just say anything then. I’m incurring the cost of losing, sometimes half my day to doing a job. I’m incurring the cost of being in a different city away from my family, and children. I’m I’m incurring the cost of not having another job that actually pays me a living wage. I’m incurring the physical cost that it takes to my body to play baseball. Should we keep going like everybody is incurring costs here? Some people are compensated for those costs.

ALEX:  Yeah. I have, I have no other rational thought to add to this. It’s just one more, one more thing to throw in the pile of bullshit that MLB has been toting around–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –this week.

BOBBY:  I don’t even feel like I’m doing good job making podcasts. I’m just kind of yelling. Like I’m not, this feels like a very reactionary episode. And I’m I’m sure the listeners can tell that it feels very reactionary. But I don’t know how else to feel at this point. As we sit here on February 13, and owners are not putting forth serious proposals. Every player on the union is mad. Every player on the Union Committee is mad. And at the same time, they’re like, by the way, hey, not gonna pay minor leaguers for spring training. It’s like anything else? Anything else? Why don’t you just get it all out now, guys? Because the season has to start at some point. So why don’t you just say everything that you want? All at once?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Stop trying to [41:31]–

ALEX:  [41:31] using child labor. Okay, cool.

BOBBY:  Cool, all right.

ALEX:  And that was coming.

BOBBY:  Do you want to expand your human trafficking racket to a different hemisphere of the globe? Anything else? No.

ALEX:  Get it off your chest, Rob.

BOBBY:  Are you gonna kidnap any politicians to give you local tax breaks? Like what, what else?

ALEX:  Yeah, Libby Libby Schaff, mayor of Oakland has been conspicuously quiet in this [41:56]–

BOBBY:  Maybe this is finally when they’re going to institute are playing baseball, playing spring training in international waters so that they don’t have to pace minor leaguer at all.

ALEX:  There you go.

BOBBY:  That’s a deep cut for the old Tipping Pitches listeners right there.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Should we take a break and come back and do listener questions?

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Should we keep theorizing about what baseball owners should do? What crimes baseball owners should commit?

ALEX:  You know, when we look back on this like a year from now, one of these things will have come true. So–

BOBBY:  Ohh.

ALEX:  –I think it’s a good, I think it’s a good exercise.

BOBBY:  I think the opener is like two and a half for which of those things–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –to come true. Okay, we’ll take a quick break and come back a couple of listeners questions.

[42:36]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, Alex, we have two voicemails to play, one DM. We’ll start with a voicemail.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hi, guys, it’s Becca. Okay, three things I want to get to. So I’m going to try to do it. In the limited time we have to leave voicemails. First of all, I think it’s really funny that even though it’s just a voicemail, we still have to sit through all the rings before we get sent to the voicemail box. No one’s gonna pick up, but we still stay here like someone actually is. Okay, second of all non-baseball related question. Bobby, what are you most and least forward, mostly looking forward to about living in New York again? And then I the baseball related question. Do you guys have any strong opinions on high socks versus low sock? I feel like I don’t have a strong opinion about the look of it. But I think that it’s positional. Like if the catcher came out onto the field with high socks that would be really thrown off or like I think high socks are very much like a reliever look. Not to say that they can’t wear low socks, but I just kind of associate it with that. Okay, looking forward to the next episode. Talk to you guys later.

BOBBY:  Okay, a three parter, Alex, three parter. Part number one, I think technically, we could answer the call. If we had the Google voicemail browser or Google Voice whatever it’s called browser up on our computer at the moment that you called. Seems very unlikely but that’s why it ranks because you could use it as a phone. Uhm, part number two, I got to think about this for a second. While Alex Bazeley answers part number three, high socks and low socks. What are your thoughts? What are your thoughts?

ALEX:  I’ve always been a high socks guy.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I just, I just think they they look so slick. I love the the burst of color that they bring. I love the the fashion statement that they can give. You’ve seen some players rollout in socks with designs on them. The Dodgers notably have have had some some like palm trees on their, on their socks. There’s a burgeoning industry–

BOBBY:  Because of Los Angeles, you know?

ALEX:  Right. I think, I think that’s the [45:02]

BOBBY:  Yeah. SoCa,l Southern California.

ALEX:  And you know they’re even a different, different degrees of high sock where, right? Are you the Hunter Pence high sock over the knees?

BOBBY:  He’s [45:15]–

ALEX:  [45:15]. Yes, super gnarly.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Are you a ball punter?

ALEX:  I respect it. You’re never gonna forget how he looks. Yeah, I mean, I played, I played second base growing up. And that always felt like, I felt like a perfect high sock position. I get the positional difference. But I also think it’s, there’s something about the kind of corny look, that is really just like visually appealing. And this doesn’t even get into the the argument of like high socks versus stirrups. Which like if you’re going to do high socks, if you’re going to do high socks, go all the way, right?

BOBBY:  I agree.

ALEX:  I mean, stir–stirrups are just cream of the crop.

BOBBY:  Here’s my thought. You already look so ridiculous while dressed up in a baseball uniform. But that doesn’t look like anything, normal. So why not just go as far as possible? Why not just, if your amp is at 8, why not just turn it up to 11.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  And so if you have the option in your bag, go syrups like I think stirrups looks really cool, especially for like a starting pitcher, you know. It’s very old–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –it’s very old timey. A starting pitcher or a reliever or whatever. And it is visually appealing on the mound. It’s just something about the way that it accentuates the way their windup works, you know. With your feet moving the footwork and everything and I don’t know. I I wore my socks, I I did not wear stirrups because I was like 13, you know. Like I was, I didn’t have the, the equipment budget that Major League Baseball players have. I was just rocking with the same, like semi-ripped old high socks, but that’s okay, that’s okay.

ALEX:  I I kind of think that wearing high socks gives you a more slender look. Which is why I think that maybe like a like a first baseman wearing high socks. Feels a little weirder than like maybe a shortstop wearing high socks. But like then again–

BOBBY:  [47:16] Joey Votto weird.

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  That’s beyond the pale. We could never insinuate–

ALEX:  [47:01]

BOBBY:  –that Joey Votto is weird.

ALEX:  Miguel Cabrera has, has rocked the high sock,s he’s known for rockin high socks. So like honestly, I, I mean, if you’re Miguel Cabrera you could wear no socks and people probably be like, yep, [47:34]–

BOBBY:  Think about how big his calves are going to look after he gets a couple of cycles of HGH going–

ALEX:  So right.

BOBBY:  –for that season.

ALEX:  Anyway, that’s where, that’s where I stand high socks for life. Stirrups for life.

BOBBY:  Yup.

ALEX:  It’s like my one crotchety old traditionalist baseball fan take.

BOBBY:  All that being said, there definitely are some guys who I think would look silly with high socks.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  And–

ALEX:  Name, name names.

BOBBY:  Joey Gallo?

ALEX:  Okay. Is there, is there a rationale or is it just kind of like, you–

BOBBY:  He’s too big.

ALEX:  –know, when you see it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, you know, when you see it.

ALEX:  Well, that’s kind of what I was saying about like, like the first base there [48:12]–

BOBBY:  But Aaron Judge wear high socks. How do you think those look? I think they look a little weird. I gotta admit it. But he’s welcome to wear his socks as high as he wants. Once he’s on the New York Mets.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Bring, bring–

ALEX:  I mean, look–

BOBBY:  –him. Bring him aboard. Yankees don’t sign him? Bring him aboard.

ALEX:  Crosstown.

BOBBY: You don’t even have to move Aaron.

ALEX:  Yeah. One, one shortstop for the New York Mets is, is on board with the high socks.

BOBBY:  Who’s that? Who’s that guy? Oh, right, Francisco lindor, he’s on the Mets for the–

ALEX:  Mmm.

BOBBY:  –next 10 years.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  That’s cool.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s great.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Speaking of Francisco Lindor being on the Mets for the next 10 years, the third part of Becca’s question, which was actually the second part, part which we skipped over. What am I most and least looking forward to about moving back to New York? One of the things that I’m most looking forward to is going to watch Francisco Lindor play baseball in person all the time with my friend Alex, who’s on this Zoom screen with me right now. But I don’t, I don’t know that, if that’s the thing I’m most looking forward to. Probably just being in–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –more generally speaking, I prefer New York. I feel at home there. I’m closer to family and close friends. As as cheesy and obvious as that sounds. That is the thing that I’m looking forward to most about moving back to New York and also Alex getting to dogs it for my dog.

ALEX:  That’s right.

BOBBY:  I’m looking forward to that for him. What am I least looking forward to? Hmm. Being under the tutelage of Eric Adams? I don’t know.

ALEX:  Are you kidding? So it’s such an entertaining Mayor already, we’re already getting our money [49:43]–

BOBBY:  I know, if they’re not gonna do anything for us. It might as well be funny.

ALEX:  You see, he’s he’s doing like a like a press conference or like a meet and greet with drill rappers to address like gun violence–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –hip–hop. Just fucking sure–

BOBBY:  His video when he was running for City Council or whatever he was running for where he’s Like walking around, finding like crack cocaine underneath phases in his kid’s room.

ALEX:  Right, showing parents like where to search for the crack that their kids are doing.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Pulls a crack five out of the zipper like the pencil zipper compartment of his 8 year olds backpack. It’s actually way funnier than anything SNL has done since the turn of the millennium.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s not really what I’m least looking forward to. Honestly, what I’m least looking forward to is like two days after it snows and every puddle, every corner is just a six-foot wide puddle. That doesn’t happen in Los Angeles, let me tell you that. That does not happen there.

ALEX:  But that’s probably it. That’s pretty good.

BOBBY:  Really windy days when it just breaks your umbrella in half and you just have to throw it straight in the trash like it’s trash cans or just umbrella warzones.

ALEX:  Yes. Snowy–

BOBBY:  [50:50]

ALEX:  –snowy, windy days. Not, not, not the vibe.

BOBBY:  On the contrary–

ALEX:  [50:55] other other weather pattern–

BOBBY:  On the flip side of the Francisco Lindor thing, I’m I’m not looking forward to going to a Mets game when it’s cold. And they blow it in the ninth inning. Like I’m not looking forward to, I haven’t, I’m not looking forward to Edwin Diaz blowing a game while I’m at the game. I haven’t seen that in my life. But it definitely is gonna happen. That’s definitely gonna happen. Probably the first time we go to a game together.

ALEX:  It’s a little surprising, it hasn’t happened already.

BOBBY:  I’m really looking forward to going to Minor League games with you.

ALEX:  Yeah, I guess we still got the Cyclones out here.

BOBBY:  Yeah. All right, Pizza, the Staten Island Yankees, although based Staten Island Yankees taking down the MLB is anti trust exemption

ALEX:  That’s rain.

BOBBY:  That’s right, bro. But yeah, we can, we can go to Cyclones games and see my beloved Francisco Alvarez. Although he might just start a Triple-A this year, I don’t know. He’s amazing.

ALEX:  It’s really good.

BOBBY:  All right. Are you ready for the next question?

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Okay, this next question came in a DM from a listener who asked us not to name him. Do we think that athletes in pro sports unions think about the labor management dynamic when they take a stake in pro teams? So for example, LeBron James, heard of him, has a stake in Fenway Sports Group, Patrick Mahomes, owns a piece of the Royals. Giannis owns a piece of the Brewers. But more generally, for other athletes who have even smaller, less high profile stakes in team ownership in other sports than their own. Do they think about what that means for the relative solidarity between players unions in other sports? Alex, do you want to take a stab at this one?

ALEX:  Frankly, no.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I don’t, I don’t think that they really consider that. Because if you’re, if you’re buying into a baseball team, especially given that players, you know, are usually not the primary money man. They’re usually minority owners, right? Come in as as part of an ownership group or something like that. You are, are likely viewing this more as an investment tool, then you are an opportunity to enact change. Or or bridge the gap between players and owners, right? Especially knowing that the players who are able to buy into ownership groups are likely ones who are making hundreds of millions of dollars.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And maybe have more in common with an owner than they do with, you know, a rookie player. Is it possible that in backroom discussions, you know, internally like among an ownership group that a player is able to provide some perspective? Sure, maybe? Do I think that, do I think that the other members of the ownership group would take kindly to someone on their team advocating for or at least pointing out the position of the other side? No, not, not really. I think if I think if you’re gonna buy into a sports team, the people you’re doing it with probably trust that you have some level of solidarity with them and not with the people across the table.

BOBBY:  Yeah, or they wouldn’t sell you the steak.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Not, not to be like, everybody who’s bought a stake in an ownership group of a sports team, who is a retired athlete is a scab. But what are we talking about here? Like the the dynamic is owners versus players. The dynamic is management versus labor. That’s, that’s capitalism. And I think that, when a player buys ownership stake in a team, and has like good intentions of it, it just strikes me at this very neoliberal worldview that you can, like, enact change from the capital side. Which I don’t think is true, you know, I I don’t really buy into that. But there is a group of people who do. And I think that, to be honest, like, I think a lot of athletes share that worldview. And so I don’t think that like, I very much doubt that like, players on the Brewers think it’s bad, that Giannis owns part of the Brewers. I think it’s like the lesser of two evils, you know. You’d rather have Giannis Antetokounmpo on the other side, than like faceless Wall Street Executive acts, who doesn’t care and understand what it takes to be an athlete. But at the same time, it’s the larger structure that presents problems for you as a union. And so, I don’t think that Giannis or Pat Mahomes, or LeBron should be like, excommunicated from their players union. But I do think that there should be a reason–reasonable amount of pressure levied against them if they are part of even tacitly part of actions that are making it hard for other sports unions. Like what, what do we have here besides that? Like what do we have other than sports unions standing up for sports unions? What do I have other than media unions, my sister shops standing up for me when I’m trying to get something in me doing that for them. And so if, during one of those fights, players find themselves on the ownership side, I think that’s a massive conflict of interest, to be honest.

ALEX:  Yeah. Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And I don’t think that those people should be making decisions for the NBA Players Association, frankly. If they, I I think that they should have a say, but I don’t think that they should be able to like, like, I would not vote for those people as president of NBA, the NBA Players Association. Because all of these things are interconnected, like the CBA of one sports league, does set somewhat of a precedent for the CBA of another sports league. Or it like, sets the template that owners are all often trying to get. And I think, I think particularly in the NBA, there seems to be more of an investment opportunity to to get back involved in ownership groups, in other sports, just because of the extremely influential nature of being an NBA star, and the extremely public facing nature of that. So the NBA probably is the League that has the most former players involved in ownership groups. And I think that that is like a step towards something slightly better in sports ownership than what we have now, which is just like the, the capitalists sitting at the top of it, profiting off of it while having basically nothing to do with the exhibition of the sport. But I still think that it’s like, a small step, not not as large of a step as those kind of neoliberal pro-capitalism acolytes would have you believe that it is.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, I think it’s telling that those current players who do have a stake in a professional sports franchise are are by and large, not the ones who are actually sitting on the their, their Union’s Executive Committee, right?

BOBBY:  Except–

ALEX:  LeBron James–

BOBBY:  –except LeBron was, he was the vice president of–

ALEX:  [58:25]

BOBBY:  –the Players Association. And then that was before he had an ownership stake in the Red Sox. But still, he had a huge role in the last CBA.

ALEX:  Oh, for sure. I and and I don’t think that negates the the influence at all. But I do wonder if if his other, if his league mates, you know, take that into consideration at all, when doing said voting, right? Mahomes–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –is Patrick Mahomes is his team’s player representative. So clearly, he has some, clearly he has a seat at the table and and you know, a voice in negotiations. But I have to imagine he is not the outsize voice in the room, right?

BOBBY:  I don’t know nothing about the NFL players [59:05]–

ALEX:  [59:05] I don’t either. So–

BOBBY:  I know that they get cleaned up at bargaining every six years because their player pool is recycles very often and their owners have a lot of built in power.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, all all this to say I think that if a, a former player was really interested in enacting change on behalf of the players, you would probably go work for the Union rather than for the owners.

BOBBY:  I would [59:31]–

ALEX:  If you really–

BOBBY:  –though, buy a team and then and then give it to the players or like give them everything they want. That would be sick.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s an experiment we have not seen happen.

ALEX:  Yeah, it does.

BOBBY:  Okay, I think that’s enough on that question. Last question is a voicemail.

VOICEMAIL 2:  Hi, Bobby. Hi Alex, this is Micah again. I want to say thank you for answering my voicemail last week. I appreciate that. Also extremely entertaining listening to you guys, talk about your eating habits. I did not expect to go that long, but I’m really happy that it did. Okay, so obviously, our beloved Rob Manfred addressed the media today, as I’m calling this Thursday. And I need to make a disclaimer. I am not optimistic because he said he’s optimistic. I’m trying to be optimistic, because he talked like, as he talked about the agreements that they have made and the CBA negotiations. As far as like, universal DH, and like the no draft pick compensation and the draft lottery, like all things, I think, are objectively good for the league. So yeah, so like, I’m trying, I guess my question is, is it fair to be a little more optimistic? Or like a decent bit more optimistic than I was, say, a week ago? Because now we know they have agreed on things that aren’t just good for the owners, but good for the league in general. So yeah, thank you guys.

BOBBY:  I don’t think it’s bad to be optimistic. I mean, we spent the first hour of this podcast being pretty, pretty pessimistic and reactionary. But I think that Micah is right that, there have been some things that are agreed to particularly, I mean, universal DH is good for the players, not for me, but for the players. And no draft pick compensation is good. Arbitration pool of money is good. I think that the thing that makes me pessimistic and frustrated and just kind of tired of talking about some of this stuff is how, it how it’s been like pulling teeth to get those things. Like, these are things that should have been agreed to in December. And we’re sitting here in February, and we’re still pretending like this is huge movement from the owners. I think that’s probably the reason why I’m a little bit less optimistic than it sounds like Micah is. But the counter to that is the reason to be optimistic is like, yeah, players just seem like they’re not going to take a shitty deal. Which in the long run is good for the game, if you kind of see it through a similar lens to us.

ALEX:  Yeah, I think you said it. I mean, I’m not, I don’t lean, optimistic or pessimistic one way or another.

BOBBY:  You just really [1:02:09]–

ALEX:  [1:02:09] jerk. But shh–exactly, yes. No, I’m I, I you know, I favor objectivity. You know, I’ll–

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  –I’ll wait. I’ll wait to see until all the cards are on the table. I mean, honestly, I think it’s, you know, it’s too early to really say, I think there’s no real point in being optimistic or pessimistic about this. Because I ultimately it doesn’t, you know, it’s not going to impact the direction of the negotiations. And I won’t be optimistic until we have a deal, frankly, I’m my biggest, you know, optimism comes from seeing the players solidarity, right?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And just how vocal that they have been, I think that’s the biggest thing. As you said, because it’s an indication that maybe they’re not going to roll over. So I don’t know that I see these smaller agreements that they’ve come to as wins necessarily. They, as you said, I mean, they feel more like layups. Like they were kind of a given already. And so sure, it’s a good thing that they did it, because if they didn’t agree on that they sure as hell weren’t going to agree on anything else. But I they’re obviously still super far apart on some of the key issues–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –affecting the sport right now. And so we kind of just have to let it run its course.

BOBBY:  I’m just, I’m just happy that, you know, that they were able to agree on those few small things. While getting over the tremendous hurdle, Alex, that is the owners having to negotiate with the hidden hand of the game’s top agent, Scott Boras. You know, it’s just like Tipping Pitches to not mention this bombshell until an hour and 10 minutes into the podcast. But New York Times political reporter, Michael Schmidt, for reasons unbeknownst to me, and I I I assume you unless you were reporting this tweet with Michael Schmidt. Michael Schmidt tweeted, “Baseball faces its greatest labor crisis since the World Series was canceled in ’94. The owners are increasingly convinced Tony Clark and Bruce Meyer have had their power neutered and that owners are actually negotiating against the hidden hand of the game’s top agent Scott Boras.” So long answer to your question Micah is it’s good that they were able to extract. It’s good that Scott Boras was able to extract these moderate concessions from the owners after having having neutered Tony Clark and Bruce Meyer.

ALEX:  His influence knows no bounds, seriously.

BOBBY:  What happened here? Your best guess as we close out this podcast Why did this guy Tweet this?

ALEX:  I think he probably knows some people on the ownership side. And the ownership side is, you know, rightfully from their position at least, peeved that the players have not rolled over and this is their attempt to try and make someone like Scott Boris into the bad guy. Because that’s kind of one of their emmos every offseason, right? Is to point out how Scott Boras is ruining the game by negotiating big contracts or or speaking in tongues.

BOBBY:  I I would simply like to know whose signatures go on those contracts other than Scott Boras and the player. To the, to the owners have to sign those? Alex, to the owners have to agree to do that? Is their boogeyman thing of Scott Boras? Like we’ve been had by Mr. Boras, we thought he was with us. And he’s stabbed us in the back. Like he’s a player agent, what do you want him to do? He’s doing his job. It makes no sense to me why they think that fans are going to respond to this weirdo, dark smoke filled room plan to make Scott Boras to be the enemy of this whole CBA negotiation. I just don’t understand it. It’s all misdirection. And it’s like crazy town. And I I feel like, like my sense of reality is skewed when the New York Times political reporter is coming in out of nowhere to tweet this about Scott Boras and then never follow up on it. But he’s just never said anything else after that.

ALEX:  Right. And and as a labor lawyer and baseball Twitter favorite Eugene Friedman pointed out he’s accusing the MLBPA of an unfair labor practice. Like this is, this is not just a casual piece of conspiracy that he’s just tossing onto the pie. Like this is a, if that is what is happening. If the, the if the players union is sending people to the table who don’t have the power to bargain on behalf of the Union. That that, the that’s, that’s not gonna allowed–

BOBBY:  This what’s called illegal.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  It’s just, man, I just feel like someone is going to come out from behind the door and be like, Bobby and Alex, you’ve been pumped. This whole thing is actually agreed to already. We’ve just been creating a very strict, a very narrow, weird reality for your podcast. In which a New York Times political reporter who used to cover baseball in the early 2000s is gonna tweet that Scott Boras is the secret guiding hand of the Players Association.

ALEX:  I don’t know how to respond other, other than that, I appreciate that whoever is pulling this on us.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Whoever is doing the punking here has listened to enough of our podcasts to know just how mad this would drive us.

BOBBY:  Uh-huh. Uh-huh.

ALEX:  It’s, it takes a really intimate knowledge of you and, you and my neuroses to craft an alternate reality. This hyper specific, just perfectly gets under our skin. So kudos, kudos, I’m waiting for Ashton Kutcher.

BOBBY:  Simulation theory thriving at the end of this episode of Tipping Pitches. Thank you for listening. We will be back next week, not sure what we’re going to be talking about. Of course, I’ve alluded multiple times now to the reporting of a special climate series about climate and Baseball. And Alex and I are still hard at work on that. It’s, it’s going to be coming up in the coming months. If you are interested in the topic of climate and Baseball and have anything that you think we might be interested in. Please write in tippingpitchespod@gmail.com, tipping_pitches on Twitter. As always, you can acquire yourself some Tipping Pitches merch at tiny.cc\nationalize. And you can call our voicemail to be featured on the show 785-422-5881. And please do call our voicemail, because chances are we’re not going to have a CBA to talk about next week. So we’ll need something to talk about. Alex, anything else? For the wonderful listeners of this hear podcast?

ALEX:  No, unfortunately, I have to run I have to go and eat a spoonful of protein powder and do CrossFit in the snow. So I got a I got a dip. But–

BOBBY:  CrossFit is not going to get you the size you’re looking for. Cross–

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  –you’re burning, you’re burning too much of those gains off. What you want do is you just want to sit there and pump, just pump. We’ll talk about it offline. Just–

ALEX:  All right.

BOBBY:  –monohydrate, let’s go.

ALEX:  Keep, keep an eye on the feed folks until I get my own up and running. I’m gonna be using Tipping Pitches to, to post, post my progress pics.

BOBBY:  Thanks so much for listening everyone, we’ll be back next week.

[1:10:04]

[Music]

[1:10:16]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil

Posted bytippingpitchespodFebruary 19, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB CBA, MLB lockout, new york mets, new york yankees, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on Owners Just Wanna Have Fun	
Mediator? I Barely Know Her

Alex and Bobby bid adieu to Cowboy Joe West’s time as an umpire, which thankfully means more time for him in the recording studio. Then they dive into the latest news on the bargaining front, including why owners want a mediator and why players rightfully rejected it, what this maneuver says about the state of negotiations, how the owners underestimated players coming into the offseason, the players’ united front on social media, and much more. Then they shift their attention to Brian Flores’s lawsuit against the NFL for discriminatory hiring practices, and reflect on baseball’s own problems when it comes to diversity in managerial positions. Finally, a few listener questions on junk food, finding an apartment, what’s been on the TV for Alex and Bobby lately, and the prospect of a Tipping Pitches live show.

Links:
Shakeia Taylor on addressing MLB’s pipeline for managers of color
Rhiannon Walker on the state of the Black manager in MLB

Songs featured in this episode:
Diddy — “Diddy (feat. the Neptunes)” • Sturgill Simpson — “Life of Sin” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, I have to say, we started this podcast, when we used to joke with each other about how we would just agree all the time. 100% of the time, no matter what anybody said, we would agree. And over the years, the distance of 1000s of miles between us staring at each other on Zoom screens. I feel like we’ve grown divided. You know, there are some topics that we’ve never been able to come to an agreement on, we’re at a stalemate. And so I didn’t tell you this ahead of time, just kind of drop it in on you live in the public sphere. So that everybody else can react to it, in a bad faith way. I actually invited a Federal Mediator to be part of the podcast today, just to maybe, you know, ease the tension between us. So the Federal Mediators in the waiting room. And if it’s okay with you, I’m gonna, I’m just gonna let him in. Is that all right?

ALEX:  Do I have to agree to this? I think that as the other party here, I have to give my informed consent to this. So can I, can I know who the, who the mediator is? What is, this background is? Maybe his net worth?

BOBBY:  Net Worth? Is open secrets donation record?

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  I know the Federal, the Federal Mediator is Bob Nightengale.

ALEX:  Hmm.

BOBBY:  You don’t know which way he’s gonna land. He’s a loose cannon.

ALEX:  He he really is.

BOBBY:  Actually no, Bob Nightengale very busy these days. He’s just writing columns, he’s writing so many columns. I don’t know how or why, he just writes columns. He doesn’t anything else, just columns. Half of them are wrong. But he writes the column.

ALEX:  I guess when you churn out so many, you’re bound to get some right just by, you know, by chance.

BOBBY:  Oh–

ALEX:  I need to know he’s trying–

BOBBY:  –to say is bound to get some wrong by chance. That you’re going to take the more generous interpretation of it. [2:18] about to get some right by chance. I thought you were going for the, he’s the Monta Ellis of USA Today. Wow.

ALEX:  Damn, rip.

BOBBY: Young Alex was like, trade Steph Curry not Monta Ellis. That’s that’s definitely true.

ALEX:  That absolutely is true. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Uhm, no, you know, who’s got a lot of free time to be the federal mediator between us. Cowboy Joe West. That’s–

ALEX:  Hmmm, that’s true. A Hall of Fame? Joe West, Hall of Fame? What do you think?

BOBBY:  Are they’re like, are they’re like first ballot Hall of Famers for umpire? Like, because they’re the–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –amount of time that you’re not allowed to be on the ballot when you’re an ump. Or is He, is he potentially already in the Hall of Fame? Like he’s just not–because with Managers, you can be actively in the Hall of Fame, right? You don’t have to be, I guess, if you were recognized for your playing career and then became a Manager after.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Which is not what happened with Joe West. He’s going to be in the the Nashville Country Music Hall of Fame, that’s for sure.

ALEX:  That is for sure. You know, I I just want to say as when I heard the news that he retired, I was, you know, obviously taking a trip down memory lane and exploring some of his musical exploits over the years.

BOBBY:  Right. I know you had a flight. So did you just download all of his spoken word albums and paste–

ALEX:  I–

BOBBY:  –them straight through.

ALEX:  I did, I did, yes. I’m currently trying to write a dissertation, a piece of music criticism on what’s a very–

BOBBY:  Nuanced.

ALEX:  –nuanced. Yes, exactly. Yeah.

BOBBY:  10 out of 10.

ALEX:  –work.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Yeah. Yeah. No, I’m I’m I’m leaning 7.8. Because, you know, while it’s got its flaws. You know, I’m an optimist at heart. And I think that I think that he’s worthy of, of considered criticism. He’s a part of the cultural zeitgeist. So what are you going to do just say that his voice is invalid?

BOBBY:  Yeah, he’s talking about things that are in the culture right now. Like supporting the men in blue, and the founding fathers–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –and baseball history?

ALEX:  All this to say, I I have been unable to find his album from like, 20 or 30 years ago, blue cowboy.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I can, I am, I I, we found, I found diamond James.

BOBBY:  It’s on Spotify.

ALEX:  I hope he owns music, you know, or is–

BOBBY:  He had a masters.

ALEX:  –like, oh, like a little cowboy Joe’s version.

BOBBY:  It could use a re record. It sounds like it was recorded on like a USB microphone.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  Well, no, like live in a empty room.

ALEX:  Cowboy Joe, if you need audio tips, this this man, sitting sitting across from me, he’s your guy.

BOBBY:  That would be, the thing that I would be most proud of professionally. Is if I was the mixing and mastering engineer [5:08]–

ALEX:  Imagine getting cowboy [5:09] credits.

BOBBY:  Oh my god. Let’s go. I’ll quit the podcast for that. I I played with the idea of yesterday when we were, I was kind of unhinged tweeting about Rob Manfred. I played with the idea of being like, a following up to one of those tweets and being like, I’ll quit the podcast if Rob or any of the 30 Baseball owners are willing to come on. Like, that’ll be our final show. They come on podcast over–

ALEX:  Headache.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Done.

BOBBY:  But I don’t even, that’s not true. I’m not quitting the podcast over that, I’m not leaving. Rob can’t silence me in any way.

ALEX:  It depends on how successful the conversation is, I think, you know.

BOBBY:  I kind of think we would get bodied by most of them. Like, they’re like 70. They’ve been asked tough questions before, especially Rob.

ALEX:  Well, I I I think that Rob and the owners are probably different characters. Rob would absolutely body us.

BOBBY:  Yeah, we don’t stand a chance against Rob. This guy’s like, he’s like the Commissioner of Baseball. He’s he’s had tougher moments than coming on Tipping Pitches, that’s for sure. We’re not exactly like investigative journalists here.

ALEX:  Right, yeah. Yeah, I think if we had Dick Monfort on, it might be a bit of a different story. Some of these guys–

BOBBY:  I think we could get along.

ALEX:  I think so too.

BOBBY:  Maybe that’s the healing moment American needs.

ALEX:  That’s reaching across the aisle.

BOBBY:  We can make peace with baseball owners?

ALEX:  [6:31] God, we’re well on our way to getting canceled.

BOBBY:  Uhm, okay, we are going to talk about the federal mediator in a serious way. We’re going to talk about the last week plus, basically two weeks at this point, Alex, in collective bargaining. Since last week, we we ran an episode with Rob Mans, which I think is still informative, if you had not heard that episode yet. Still informative for how the baseball economic landscape has been shaped leading up to this point. But I was on my trip back to the east coast. So we have not been able to discuss any of the news on CBA in last two weeks, and then a couple of listener questions at the end. Before we do all of that. I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[7:14]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Alex, you and I have not spoken for the purposes of the Tipping Pitches Podcast since January 25th. And we put out a new episode on January 27th. It is February 7th, which is really coming up on when spring training typically starts. And in that time, which I drove through the entirety of the great United States of America.

ALEX:  A heartland.

BOBBY:  In a car, MLB and MLBPA have a limit one time, one time they met once, on Tuesday, February 1st. The players returned the proposal to the owners at that time.

ALEX:  Was, was this like. was this the 90-minute meeting? The heated 90-minute meeting?

BOBBY:  Yeah, that the heated 90-minute meeting. The every reporter is obligated to say, it was a heated discussion for 90 minutes.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Would love to be in that room, I don’t really understand how it they typically 90 minutes. You don’t really meet across the table for 90 whole minutes. Like you meet for 5 minutes, and then leave and then come back for 5 minutes and then leave and then come back for 5 minutes.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  So this is just 90 minutes of players being like, hey, what the hell? Because they’re so, I would have loved to see it.

ALEX:  I hope so.

BOBBY:  I would have loved to see it.

ALEX:  That’s it, that’s a shorter amount of time that it usually takes us to record one of these episodes.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I just for context.

BOBBY:  But this is a heated 90-minutes. That’s how [8:45]–

ALEX:  It is, it is heated, it’s true.

BOBBY:  The upshot of that meeting is that players made a few legitimate concessions. They went down from $100 million, changing the revenue sharing by $100 million to only change it by $30 million. They went down on their WAR bonus pool for zero through three pre arbitration players. A few other things as well, but owners coming out of that meeting, the heated 90-minute meeting that it was. They promised to return a proposal within, I probably they said two days at maximum.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That was now seven days ago, six days ago. Instead, two days later, they requested help from a federal mediator. When the owners requested help from the federal mediator. Take, take me through you Alex Bazeley’s response to that. You’re logging on you’re like is a federal, US Federal employee going to fix this?

ALEX:  Here’s the thing is that like lifelong bureaucrats are often relatively decent at at their jobs. Like uh, you know, I’m far be it for me to disparage someone who’s, who’s given their life for, for this country metaphorically speaking. You know, that [10:00], but the–

BOBBY:  You’re only willing to discourse–

ALEX:  [10:03]

BOBBY:  –once you’ve given that life literally.

ALEX:  Oh, wow. Yeah, I’m gonna, I’m not gonna address that one. Uhm, it’s kind of like spending like 10 minutes on, on a crossword puzzle. And already, like going up to the, to the like hints corner, you know. Saying, all right, I need, give me, give me a few letters.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Yeah. It’s like, find a new hobby at that point.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. Like you’re clearly not very good at this or at least interested in investing the time it would take to deliver a reasonable outcome.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  So why are you really doing it at all? And they think that, perhaps the same thought could be applied to said MLB owners. Who throughout this entire process, it seems, have not been so interested in taking this very seriously. Or, or at least negotiating in a way that would lead you to believe they actually expect that they would get this far.

BOBBY:  Yes. So we, we talk, when we talk about CBA negotiations. We talk a lot about numerical differences. And those are actually the better of the two. It can seem like MLBPA says 110 million, and MLB says 5 million, and they’re never going to find a deal, right? It’s not really true. Like the things that blow up deals are philosophical differences.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  The problem is, most ownership, most management, most business owners in America have a philosophical disagreement with the notion with the idea of collective bargaining to begin with. And often, when you’re observing a collective bargaining negotiation, that that there’s a point at which that becomes apparent. And this is that point in Major–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –League Baseball, they’re like, we don’t want to do this. We don’t want to do the work. We don’t want to come to the table with our proposals. It took them 48 days or whatever it took them after the lockout started, to even send back a proposal. They promised they would send one back in 48 hours, we’re now six days removed, and a bogus Federal Mediation request. And I should say it’s bogus, because the players were never going to agree to this, the owners did this for PR. I think there’s reasonable cases and times where Federal Mediation can actually help in collective bargaining negotiations. But not when one side is not even giving back proposals. And that’s what the players all came out and collectively said. The statement from the ML–MLB Players Association, started out with two months after implementing their lockout, and just two days after committing to players that a counter proposal would be made. The owners, the owners refused to make a counter and instead requested mediation. So it’s like, it’s not that we’re both, both sides are doing our work. And we’re not seeing eye to eye it’s that one side is not doing their job.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  So which should not be surprising to people who listen to this podcast, the owners are not doing their job. Because they don’t actually have jobs most of the time. They have to complete tasks for, also worth giving context that Donald fear the former Executive Director of the Players Association said, a very similar thing happened in 1994-1995, where Bill Clinton appointed a federal mediator. And the federal mediator made a CBA recommendation, which fear and the player said was totally bogus and completely delayed and strung out the process and made them look like bad guys for turning it down. And they did not want, goes without saying that they did not want a similar situation to that. Because there are still replay guys on Twitter being like, fans remember 94. And we hate players still, because of it. It’s like, well, you’re still a fan 30 years later. And these are not the same players. And it’s not the same owners even. But all that to say, usually an ownership group that doesn’t actually want a CBA deal, or doesn’t want anything to change from their previous CBA deal will act exactly like MLB owners are acting right now.

ALEX:  Which is funny, given that with, can you refresh my memory on who called the lockout again? Because they thought it might lead to a speedy negotiation process.

BOBBY:  I, am, and a lot has happened since then.

ALEX:  Was it Scherzer who popped on Twitter and was like, yeah–

BOBBY:  Lockout activated, yeah.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I think, yeah, he asked Scott Boras to put out a statement from. But, but yeah, that was.

ALEX:  Yeah, okay. It was Scherzer, okay.

BOBBY:  Right.

ALEX:  I you know, real quick, because, because we value accountability here on Tipping Pitches. I want to, I want to apologize because at the start of this at the start of this lockout, you you know, you asked me we prognosticated so to speak. On on how long we found–

BOBBY:  On anyone and everyone is my–

ALEX:  –podcast.

BOBBY:  –not even just stars.

ALEX:  Right. It was it was all over the place. And and I predicted–

BOBBY:  On how, on how long, right? On how–

ALEX:  –right. On on how long this would this would drag out? Would we miss any games or anything like that. And I, perhaps naively said that I thought that it certainly would drag out until January or February. But I I didn’t really think we were at risk of losing many games, if any at all. Because the the owners had too much at stake. Which I I still think is true, they still have plenty at stake. But I somehow managed to underestimate how stubborn a group of 30 billionaires really are. I, because it’s very clear, they are uninterested in actually meeting the players halfway on on any of these.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And I think that’s because the owners underestimated the players in how frustrated they actually were. I think they expected them to roll over long before we actually got to this point, right? With the threat of missed paychecks from canceled games. They thought that would probably be enough, right? And I think that owners were maybe not prepared for the unified front that the players are really putting out right now. And how much the players were actually willing to sacrifice the current moment for, effectively, what is the future of baseball, right? What is the future of the sport? Because the players, it seems, are prepared to say, yes, we might miss some paychecks here. But there are issues at stake right now that loom much larger over the the present and future of baseball. That it is in our best interest, to not just give you exactly what you want. Which is maybe what the players have done in the past. I think the owners were really unprepared for this. And that’s what this Federal Mediation bit of news seems to indicate, right? Is it’s a bit of a Hail Mary on the owners part. Because they kind of thought they’d just be getting what they wanted at this point.

BOBBY:  See, I think it’s just holding the ball out and running the clock out. Like in basketball, if, if there’s no shot clock, it’s just it’s your version of giving the ball to the point guard and just turning his back to the basket for–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –about 15 seconds just to run the clock down before they finally bring the trap over. Like, to me that’s really strain as many of these other other sports metaphors as we can. You want to throw a hockey one in? Maybe Olympics to be on topic to be time in.

ALEX:  Yeah, this is, this is the, this is trying to pull off a quad axle. And and and landing too early. I don’t, I don’t, I don’t really know how figure skating works.

BOBBY:  This is like not pushing the curling stone hard enough and then really having to scrub it to get it to go faster, right at the end.

ALEX:  Sure. Yeah. Nails good.

BOBBY:  Uhm, no, because now we’ve made so many metaphors. I don’t even remember what I was gonna say. It’s–

ALEX:  Not scrubbing enough, not scrubbing enough.

BOBBY:  Right. That’s not scrub enough, that that jogs my memory. I think you’re right, that it’s, it’s a testament to how stubborn 30 billionaires can be. But I think an important nuance to that is it’s it’s a testament to how stubborn 30 billionaires who already have what they want.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And that’s why we talked about, it’s so hard to get your first Collective Bargaining Agreement after union has formed. Because what you’re doing is you’re changing the fundamental relationship of workers and management. You’re saying, now there are these things that govern our working relationship. That’s why the PA, when it was first formed, was like one of the most successful unions in American history. Because baseball was this gigantic industry. And it was a wild wild west for owners versus players. They were screwing players up so many thing,s like unbelievable amounts of money. Which is why now, players make so much money because they were able to take some of those things back. And every time you have a successive CBA, the the players are identifying problems with the past CBA and trying to correct for them. Problems with the past CBA is a subjective statement from my perspective. I’m saying problems that are jeopardizing the future health of the game and players ability to want to participate in it. But also like, existential threats to the financial elements of the game, too. But owners don’t see this as problems, man. Like, that’s what we’ve been talking about for the last three years. Owners like everything is pretty good. Even if we’re not really colluding with each other. We’re effectively colluding with each other. There’s this stat from from Evan Altman on Twitter, that I just recently shared. Average MLB salary in 2020 was 4.17 million, down 6.4% from 2017. Median salary, 1.15 million, down 30% from 2015. So why would the owners want to change anything? Why the the salary is going down, revenues are going up? Our friend Grant Grant Frisbee made that very clear by tweeting that graph, repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly. So when we’re talking about who’s stalling, or whose fault it is? Probably the side that wants to keep things exactly the same and doesn’t benefit at all from coming to the table. And is proving it over and over again, by pulling sounds like the federal mediator.

ALEX:  Here’s the thing is they could have kept it exactly the same, right? They could have kept the CBA exactly what it is, they did not need to call a lockout, they could have just kept playing out and and negotiating over the course of the offseason. If you, if you don’t come to an agreement, you will just continue to play under the rules of the last CBA until you come to a new one, right? And the the only reason you don’t do that is, is if you’re worried that the players might strike, right? You don’t want to leave open that possibility. And that’s why you call the lockout is to basically preempt that strike. And the only reason you get worried if the players are going to strike, is if you maybe have an inkling of a thought that you might be the one who’s not negotiating in the best faith. If you think, hmm, we might not be putting forth a very good deal. And the players might not be too happy about that. So like there is a bit of self-awareness, I think that the owners have of like, we know how stubborn we’re being. And we don’t want to give the players an opportunity to seize on that. But now we’re at this point where they’ve kind of run out of ideas, like the players, to a certain extent, seem to have the upper hand right now in negotiating. Because I still think that owners really don’t want to lose money–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –guys, they really don’t. And they start losing money as soon as spring training starts. Which notably players don’t, they’re still don’t get paid for spring training. So it really feels like a last ditch effort to me to try and whip some sense into players, which obviously they they’re not taking the bait for, right? They are recognizing that the owners have not actually come to the table and there is no actual formal impasse, right? And impasse exists when the two sides agree, hey, we are negotiating in good faith on these issues. But we still have differences in like you were saying the numbers, we think this number should be 10 million. And and you think it should be 50 million. And we’re both steadfast in that. And we need someone to come in and just give their third party opinion, right? And that’s just not the case here.

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  That’s not what’s going on.

BOBBY:  This is why it was so confusing. When over the weekend, we saw a report, not really a report, just a tweet from Jeff Jones, who writes for, who’s [22:50] Cardinals beat writer for Belleville news. Who wa,s who had, I believe had attended some kind of Cardinals fan event or something like that, that Adam Wainwright was at. And apparently Wainwright said, If owners proposed the exact same deal we have right now we’d probably go play baseball, to be honest with you.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That’s just not happening. Not even close to be honest with you. It’s a very confusing quote to see come out because it doesn’t sound like that’s what the players actually think it sounds like that’s what Adam Wainwright thinks. And if the owners propose those deal, that deal and Adam Wainwright and a cohort of other players who feel similarly to Adam Wainwright, he’s definitely not the only person who feels that way. Like, let’s let’s be honest, this is a this is a union made up of over 1000 people, I’m sure there are among that group of people. Dudes who are like, I don’t want to go to bat to take revenue sharing down.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Because I just want to get back on the field. There those that’s one of the challenges of being the MLBPA. But it’s not going to get passed. It’s not going to get ratified if they put the exact same CBA after all this?

ALEX:  Right, yeah. At this point.

BOBBY:  And guess what? It’s the owners fault. It’s the owners fault that the players feel this way. It’s exactly what you said, the owners underestimated how frustrated the players are. Because guess what, everybody who’s playing an MLB now, for the most part, has been a zero through three guy who got offered the league minimum. Has been a guy who’s been taken to arbitration or been forced to accept the deal that he didn’t think was up to his value, because he didn’t feel like going to arbitration before his season was gonna start. All of these mechanisms that have made the CBA good for the owners, that have allowed them to exploit certain things about the baseball labor, labor economic landscape. They’ve exploited those things against the players that they are now bargaining against. Which makes it very hard to bargain without frustration. And this is the existence, this is why baseball has this problem, even more so than other sports. Because owners have had the upper hand for a very long time. And the nature of the sport, different societal factors have not trended in the baseball players direction. And so we find ourselves at this impasse every single time we talk about baseball labor. And the only thing that could possibly get us over this hump is both sides coming together and actually getting a good deal. You know what I mean? Like, the only thing that can put this in the rear view is them doing their job, both sides doing their job. And there is only one side doing their job right now. Because you know, MLBPA is doing their job, because Max Scherzer is literally tweeting out what’s in their proposals. That’s how, you know, just have like a a modicum of media literacy to be able to tell which side wants you to know what’s going on. And which side doesn’t. And what that means for what’s actually happening in the room.

ALEX:  Well, and and the owners have let it get to this point, right, where the players are kind of controlling the narrative right now, right? They are the ones who have their platform on on Twitter, wherever it might be. Cardinals fan conferences, I don’t know. Where they can actually engage directly as fans you say, hey–

BOBBY:  I just say, like it’s not like any other reporters said anything about that quote. But it doesn’t seem like anybody said that he didn’t say that yet. So if something comes–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –out of Adam Wainwright comes out and is like, this is completely fake news. I never said this. Sorry, to Adam Wainwright, who seems like a great guy.

ALEX:  Yeah, agree. I mean, I think it it seems like a a reasonable thought, right? That a play a veteran player like him would would probably have. But players are actually able to, like engage with fans on these issues, right? Who dropped their mentions and say, hey, I don’t, I don’t really get it. I, Max Scherzer, what is it, that you are trying to get out of this whole thing? Because I still see millionaires versus billionaires. And I don’t really understand what this is about. And Max Scherzer can hop on Twitter and say, let me tell you, and if you go ask a dozen other players, they will all tell you the same thing. And it’s very clear and reasonably laid out. And when you actually look at like those three or four, quote unquote, “core economics” of the sport that are being negotiated over, right? With regards to, with regards to a competitive balance tax and, and salary arbitration, and like general competitiveness in the league. You you can take an objective look at that, and say that actually seems reasonable. Or at least those seem like reasonable things to be negotiating over. And I don’t really know what the owner’s response to that can be. Aside from calling for help from the federal government, I guess, maybe.

BOBBY:  Let me just read the Max Scherzer tweet, which kind of opened the floodgates a little bit for a bunch of other players to start really venting their feelings on Twitter about how negotiations are going. And that’s players who are in the room. That’s players who are not in the room. That was a lot from Jameson Taillon. We heard from Alex Wood. We heard from Marcus Stroman in a slightly different way.

ALEX:  But NFT God.

BOBBY:  Here’s a Max Scherzer tweeted, mac–by the way, Max, if you’re listening, brother, please update your Twitter photo to indicate that you’re a member of the New York Mets and your Twitter bio. Just please. You’re a pitcher for the New York Mets. That’s all I’m asking. He says, “We want a system where threshold and penalties don’t function as caps, allows younger players to realize more of their market value, make service time manipulation a thing of the past, and eliminates tanking as a winning strategy.” Man, that sounds pretty reasonable. Now how we get there is what they’re bargaining over. But if we can agree on those things, which obviously owners don’t agree. Because the part that they don’t want you to know, is that those things, make them more money. Then, then that’s how we get to the point that we’re at. I thought it was interesting, the tanking as a winning strategy thing. Because that worked for the Cubs and the Astros. You have a lot of fans being like, well, why can’t you do that? That is just following the rules and that’s what’s incentivized. And like, yeah, that’s the problem guys. Not trying to win is both incentivized from a competitive standpoint in the far future. Which doesn’t help players in the present or fans in the present while we’re at it. But also not trying to win forever incentivizes the owners. Just look at Bob Nutting, the most hated owner in Baseball. Why is he the most hated owner in Baseball? Because he doesn’t try to win, ever. And the benefits financially, directly financially from not trying to win. That’s all I have to say about this round of CBA negotiations. 40 straight minutes of yelling.

ALEX:  Right. Nothing actually happened in the last two weeks. We got 40 minutes out of it, which is pretty good, honestly.

BOBBY:  Alex, we just spent a ton of time talking about how, it’s very hard to force owners to do something that they don’t really want to do. I think you can make a a similar case, that that is at the root of basically, every problem facing baseball or facing sports. Is, owners don’t want to go the extra step, do the extra work that it takes to actually fix some of these problems that fins, players, coaches, outside observers, mediators have identified in their sport. And one of those problems came up in a big way in the NFL last week, when Brian Flores, the former recently fired coach of the Miami Dolphins, sued the NFL, and alleged that he was discriminated against for being black. And he was incentivized to lose and then fired when he didn’t lose. He is taking a class action lawsuit against the NFL for their handling of hiring black coaches. And when I read about this, or when I saw this, or when I heard a million different podcasts about this. I have to say one of the first things that I thought of was me being me MLB and their current state of hiring for Managers. Because the Selig Rule, which is the precursor to the NFL Rooney Rule. Which requires that you interview at least one candidate from a traditionally underrepresented background before filling a head coaching position. Or in baseball’s case, before filling a managerial spot or hitting coach spot, or basically any spot that works directly with a Major League Baseball team. You have to interview at least one candidate from a traditionally underrepresented background, which includes women. It doesn’t seem that hard to do. But that’s a different conversation. And it just got me thinking of, it just got me thinking about the current state of coaching and executive pipelines in MLB. And how we talk about them, and how the Selig Rule, which is, I think, weird that it’s named that. But that’s just me, it’s self aggrandizing that that was that he named it after himself. How the Selig Rule, and the NFL is equivalent, the Rooney Rule. They are designed within the system that is the problem. And it’s just very apparent in baseball. Every time there’s a managerial vacancy, or a coaching vacancy, as our friend Shakeia Taylor laid out in a piece that she wrote for global sport matters. Which will link to in the description. This is very apparent in baseball, like Flores is alleging in football, like a lot of other people are supporting him on that it just becomes a box to check. Because a rule that is designed to interview only one person for a job, and have that be the vehicle with which you try to increase diversity in your sport. It seems like it’s defeated before it ever even has a, has a chance. Because it’s not addressing the system wide problem, which is that the people in the hiring positions, know which candidates they think are qualified and which are not. Because otherwise you wouldn’t need to tell them to interview someone who is not a straight cishet male.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, it certainly requires those people in the hiring position to actually want to engage with this. Or or actually requires them to see this as a problem that is worth addressing. And something like the Selig Rule is like probably one of the, the only reasonable attempts that the league can make to actually address this issue from an executive manner. Because you can’t dictate who teams should necessarily hire. You can nec–necessitate a pipeline that at least opens up these opportunities. But obviously, that doesn’t go nearly far enough. Because as I said, you you and and as you said, you have to actually want to address this problem. Which you, there’s no, there’s no rule that Bud Selig or Rob Manfred can hand down that says, 30 owners have to acknowledge structural and institutional racism throughout the game for the last century. And must now address that in your hiring pipeline. I mean, they could say that although one Rob Manfred could come up with that, that statement right now, and I would, I would give him a rare round of applause. I don’t think he’ll do that. And I if he did, I don’t think owners would do jack shit about it. And even the Selig Rule is like–

BOBBY:  [34:48] treat it like the Senate, you know, it’d be–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –in there Rob, Robert, solemn with a solemn tone, look at them and say it’s time to address structural racism.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  And the owners would in unison raise he’s a hand in the air and they would say I addressed structural, I acknowledge structural racism.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  And then–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –it’d be finished, it be over, it’s done. Structural racism is finished, doesn’t stand a chance now.

ALEX:  It, yeah, they’ve shown no, no actual interested in really addressing this, in part because the Selig Rule is barely even enforced, right? Like–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –if a, if a team goes out of their way to somehow not hire a a, quote unquote, “diverse candidate”. Which like, what does it you know, what does that even mean? You’re just, but like the Marlins, for example, who committed this back in the early 2000s. And were fined an undisclosed amount. And then were not required to pay said undisclosed–you know, it’s like a, it’s really all for show at this point. There was a quote, I saw from a and anonymous, NFL Executive owner, whatever, who basically came out and said, you know, what, if black people want to see black coaches so much, well, they should just go and buy their own team, which, that’s, that’s one way of acknowledging this issue.

BOBBY:  Yeah. I I think that there’s this tendency, for sanitization of the problem in media within fan circles within people who don’t have to experience these unconscious or conscious biases, all the time in their lives. Where they’re like, it’s not that they don’t want to hire black people. It’s just that they came to a different candidate. And they saw that that candidate filled the qualifications for the role, right? It’s not that they actively were thinking, I don’t want to hire a black person, or I don’t want to hire a woman. But when you hear quote like that, it kind of does seem like they actively don’t want to hire any underrepresented candidates, period. You compare it to baseball, they intentionally decimated the black teams. Like they, took the all the players from the Negro Leagues, and none of the coaches, none of the managers. They didn’t take a team full stop, as we discussed, when, when Clint needs and when Andrea Williams were on the podcast. How much different Baseball would look like today? What a coaching tree would look like if those teams had not been completely put out of business? And I think for a lot of people who have experienced this problem in their day to day lives. This conversation, this that Brian Flores, sparked by suing the NFL for this problem, is particular particularly resonant. Because sports is such a distilled version of what happens in all hiring at all, in all companies across the United States. In sports, you identify the candidate before you have the role open. And it’s over from that point on, like you have already undercut the possibility that you’re going to hire someone you didn’t expect to. Because you’re going into it with a preconceived notion of who you want for that role. And even if that person says no, say that you want to hire Theo Epstein, even if Theo Epstein says no, your idea for that role is now Theo Epstein. And so you’re going to fit, you’re going to hire the person that fits most closely with Theo Epstein. You’re never going to go a complete 180 and hire someone who has a completely different path than Theo Epstein had. And that’s how we get the homogeneity that we have in baseball right now. And that’s what Shakeia lays out incredibly well, in her article. Talking to candidates who have experienced these preconceived notions in baseball while trying to get baseball jobs.

ALEX:  Yeah, there was an an interesting nugget from an article that ran and Walker of the undefeated wrote back in 2018, which was kind of looking taking a statistical dive into this exact issue of black representation among managers and coaches in baseball. And and it’s looking at the the last few decades of hiring and and it says of the of the 27 times when a black manager has been hired only 2 involved an organization with a winning record. But among the 15 white managers with no previous coaching experience at any level who were hired, 5 of them were handed the reins to an above .500 team. That’s what, that that means, you or I stand as as good of a chance of–

BOBBY:  On paper, yeah.

ALEX:  –getting hired as what Ron Washington? There are two black managers in MLB right now, right? Dusty Baker and Dave Roberts. Guys who are not exactly spring chickens, right? Like had to take decades to–

BOBBY:  Dusty old pretty spring to me, still.

ALEX:  I, honestly, honestly, he really does. I think he could probably take me down in a fight. But right like these guys had to take decades to really build up their resume.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  To fit these roles and even still, you know, we saw Dusty Baker get hired by the Astros, like purely as a PR move, right? Simply–

BOBBY:  And if not–

ALEX:  –because–

BOBBY:  –purely then that was at least like forward in the hiring.

ALEX:  I just, I mean, I what Shakeia’s article points out is that like, obviously, as the pool of black players contracts, as it has been over the last few decades. So then will the the pool of former black players who could potentially be managers down the road, right? And so it is a, it’s the snake eating its own tail. Because this is a problem that’s going to continue to perpetuate until either baseball makes a concerted effort to actually engage with black youth in America.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Before it gets comfortable with hiring black managers who don’t have playing experience. Which I stranger things have happened, I guess. But we saw Dan Jennings with zero, zero managerial or coaching experience, get chosen by the Marlins to to move from the role of GM to manager, right? We’re just, we’re just picking guys, we already know. Just going through our contact list and saying, oops, who could do it.

BOBBY:  I don’t have to remember another phone number of my manager. I don’t have to put someone new on the payroll. I don’t have to run through HR. Uhm, you’re right. It, there’s there’s two things that you said in there that I want to respond to quickly. And then we can get to listener questions, a couple listener questions that we have at the end here. Number one, it’s a holistic problem. And as we’ve seen, with every systemic problem that MLB has holistic problems, take holistic solutions. Systemic problems, take systemic solutions. And you know what owners don’t want? Systemic change. What you said what Shakeia puts in her article, dwindling interest among black youth in baseball. Because of the accessibility point of the sport. These are all problems that contribute 20 years later, to a quote unquote, “pipeline problem”. Even, even think that there is a pipeline problem, which there isn’t as much as has been reflected in the hiring itself. And to that point, the hiring itself needs to be changed. The Selig Rule needs to be updated. It’s not just interviewing one candidate. Like how about this is something that we were really proud to get in our diversity requirements in our collective bargaining agreement? How about 50% of candidates who make it to the second interview, or who make it to the interview stage of a job application are from underrepresented backgrounds? Now, you’re increasing the likelihood that you find a candidate that fits your vision of the role. Rather than just only interviewing three people, one of them who you know you’re going to hire already. And one of them who’s checking off the box for the Selig Rule, or the Rooney Rule. It’s not perfect, but it’s better. Because you’re looking at it. And you’re saying, this is at least addressing something that is systemic, not just asking the hiring manager, in this case, the general manager of a baseball team. Or the owner of a baseball team. Pick these three resumes, which one do you like best?

ALEX:  Yeah. And as you said, I mean, it’s it’s not a perfect solution, because people in charge have to recognize that there’s a problem.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And when they don’t, and then when they don’t do that, that’s, you know, you don’t you don’t get anywhere. And I mean, I just want to say before we move on from this, that this velocity by Brian Flores is stunningly courageous. Given that it likely means that he’s never going to coach a football game in the NFL again. We saw what happened with Colin Kaepernick. The same thing is is bound to happen by a league that’s notorious for for blackballing people who speak out against this practices.

BOBBY:  And I don’t even think that’s unique to the NFL. I think if anybody did this in any sport, they would be blackballed. Because when it comes to keeping things under wraps, I think all owners are aligned.

ALEX:  Yes, yeah, absolutely. I I think the same thing would happen if if this happened in baseball. And and which is not to say that no one has spoken out about it either. For example, Dave Stewart, who was formerly the Diamondbacks General, General Manager. Has spoken out about this quite a few times.

BOBBY:  As as Frank Robinson, who–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Exactly. As as did one Jackie Robinson 50–50 years ago this October, who said he’d love to see actual representation for for black people among baseball managers, right? 50 years ago, this was a problem that baseball’s, baseball’s a shining example of diversity, right? The one guy who proves they’re not racist, baseball’s one black friend, nine days before, before he passed away, pointed out that this was an issue.

BOBBY:  They can’t hear that over the sound of them patting themselves on the back so loud.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  That it rounds out, Jackie’s actual thoughts on the problem. Okay, Alex, let’s, let’s take a quick break. And then when we come back a couple questions [45:32].

[45:33]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  This first question is voicemail, which we haven’t played with on the podcast in a while. So this is exciting. A reminder, if you’re listening to this right now, you can call into our voicemail 785-422-5881 and have your question played on the podcast. We don’t need to specifically call for them, in order for you to call in and leave a voicemail, you can leave one whenever you’d like. And if we happen to check it, we will play it on the podcast.

VOICEMAIL 1:  Hi, Bobby. Hi, Alex. This is Micah, I have two things that I want to ask. One is Baseball related one is not. So the first is what is your go to gas station snack or grocery store snack? Just that one thing that you can’t help but get craving for whenever you stop. And then second thing I wanted to bring up is a few weeks ago, I my internship I was working with a Minor League Baseball player. And I kind of probed them a little bit about the life of a minor leaguer and everything. Unfortunately, I didn’t ask him anything like that, like the cool parts of being a baseball player. Only the more darker and labor side of things. And one of the things I asked was about getting caught up since players never really know when that’s gonna happen. And he said when he got called up to double A, that he could ask them how or like how long he had to like find a place to stay? And he said he had three nights paid and a hotel by his team. And that was it, he had to find somewhere to stay before that was over or just you know, pay themselves some minor leaguers make so much money. I just kind of wanted to ask you guys, when you were finding a place to live, did it take you three days? Or did it take a little bit longer than three days to find a lease design? And to move all your stuff? Yeah. Oh, zero topical question. Just wanted to put that out there as missing information that I found out. So yeah, thank you guys.

BOBBY:  Micah thanks for asking. It just took me six weeks to find one apartment in New York City. Which supposedly is a place that has a lot of apartments, unlike a lot of double A towns where there aren’t very many apartments. I know your question was rhetorical, but I decided to answer it. Anyway, uhm, I think that this is pretty standard. Like this is three nights in a hotel or five nights in a hotel. I think that this is a huge part of the problem. Not just that they’re not being that minor league players are not being paid enough to afford their own housing, but that they’re so transient that they’re often having to find two leases or break leases and ruin their credit by doing so. Like these are real world problems that real people have to face being pasted on to this very unusual experience of being a Minor League Baseball player, which is not like any other kind of work. And I think that that is the primary what you laid out there, Micah, is the primary reason why advocates for minor leaguers chose to organize around this exact problem. And to try to pressure MLB teams into agreeing to provide housing for their minor leaguers and successfully so. But it’s because they’ve talked to minor leaguers who had that exact experience that you had having that person tell you. This was one of the hardest things I’ve ever had to do is find an apartment and three nights, while also worrying that I was gonna suck when I get called up the double A.

ALEX:  Flaming Hotline Cheetos.

BOBBY:  Wow, you’ve updated bro.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, you know, it depends. Actually, I haven’t really found those out here on the East Coast.

BOBBY:  Oh, they’re everywhere in LA, everywhere. Like I would have to keep my dog from eating them off the street because I lived around the corner from high school and the high school kids. That’s all they eat, bro. They just walk around. They just chuck them out. They just dump them out on the ground. Stevie loves Flaming Hotline Cheetos once tell you.

ALEX:  Girl after my own heart. Yeah, Micah, thank you for calling him these questions. I guarantee you that any players we do get on in the future and frankly, any ones that we’ve we’ve had on in the past. We won’t ask any cool questions, either. It’s all, it’s all boring, la–labor ass stuff with the exception of like maybe a Star Wars question or two peppered in.

BOBBY:  I thought it was cool when you ask Fernando Perez, what people talk about at first base?

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That was pretty cool.

ALEX:  That’s true.

BOBBY:  And we were also in his basement weird vibe. Podcasts changed–

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  –a lot since then.

ALEX:  It really, it really [50:09]

BOBBY:  AlJazero was just playing Z out loud in the background of that podcast.

ALEX:  Yeah, yup. And and it’s–

BOBBY:  Frankly, like more like–

ALEX:  [50:20] Wild, wild times. Yeah. I mean, I mean, you know, this was a rhetorical question, but this gets to the core of the issue, right? And as you said, That’s why there was a massively organized campaign and and a pretty decent amount of public outrage over the exposition of some of the housing conditions that minor leaguers live in.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And and it’s why there’s been such movement on it. Because once you actually learn about the conditions that these players are are forced to kind of make these important life decisions under? It’s impossible not to have some amount of empathy.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  For their for their situation–

BOBBY:  It’s pretty nakedly like one of the biggest and easily most easily fixable problems in the entire baseball world.

ALEX:  Yes, yeah.

BOBBY:  But not the biggest problem, as the Dodgers face. Charges of international crimes for human trafficking. My gas station snack, I’m kind of boring, but [51:23]?

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Those are–

ALEX:  You can, you can say that now, now that the strikes over.

BOBBY:  It’s kind of, like a lot of places have been on strike recently. I just haven’t been snacking, you know?

ALEX:  Yeah. Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  Just pure Target brand, Beef jerky. That’s all I’ve been eating.

ALEX:  Jesus. [51:44] gather–

BOBBY:  [51:44] beef jerky, it depends. If I’m going for like a salty chip kind of snack, which I actually usually prefer. I’m not that big of a candy person. But if I do, if I am in the mood for candy, I usually go with like fruit snacks or high choose, Welch’s fruit snacks.

ALEX:  Oh my God, the amount of, the amount of fruit snacks in our shared college apartment.

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah. Yeah, there go to bro.

ALEX:  Next level.

BOBBY:  I that was like, sometimes that was breakfast. Sometimes that was sinner.

ALEX:  I mean–

BOBBY:  Sometimes even lunch–

ALEX:  –they are made, they are, they are made–

BOBBY:  –and sometimes [52:18]–

ALEX:  –real fruit.

BOBBY:  Real fruit. Uhm, yeah. I I think of you as a big snacker. Listeners don’t know, but your snack game, it’s on 100.

ALEX:  It, yeah. It’s I I would argue, I I snack for meals more than I have actual meals.

BOBBY:  That’s something we got to figure out. Breakfast is a very important meal. I don’t know that I’ve ever seen you eat breakfast. Like a full–

ALEX:  Actually that’s–

BOBBY:  –sit down. Alex is like, I’m gonna start my day with breakfast that wasn’t organized ahead–

ALEX:  Wow!

BOBBY:  –of time. Wow. You’re just like running through. You’re like, I’ll just get this from Starbucks on the way to class. I’m already 15 minutes late.

ALEX:  I do, I do a bagel these days. I’m a big–

BOBBY:  Okay, okay. But then what’s for lunch?

ALEX:  Nothing.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly.

ALEX:  I have a bagel at noon.

BOBBY:  Cheetos.

ALEX:  That’s yeah.

BOBBY:  Bagel at noon. That’s, two two birds with one stone. I mean, come on.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  So that’s what I do.

ALEX:  Thank you.

BOBBY:  That’s what I did yesterday. And then you snack your way to dinner and then you eat a big dinner. Uhm, none of that excuses us eating popcorn for dinner, like three nights a week for a year and a half.

ALEX:  I don’t think that needs an excuse. I think that’s perfectly acceptable.

BOBBY:  We’re all just trying to do our best. My ask one more question. Call back and ask a follow up question, which is, have you ever thought about doing a live episode of this podcast? We’ve joked about it. And we’ve joked about how hard it would be because we like to take our time and go on and digressions and take pauses and all of that good stuff run to the bathroom in the middle of the podcast. We have been invited to do a live podcast at some point later this spring. So some more on that in the future. But the answer to that question is yes, we’ve thought about it. It terrifies us.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Next and final question comes from Alex, not Alex Bazeley, Alex on Twitter. What are your favorite TV shows and movies of the past few months with a delayed season likely? Which are you looking forward to watching in the Spring? Alex, what you’ve been, what you’ve been throwing on?

ALEX:  I I have the syndrome that I think many millennials have, which is that I guess after watching a TV show I I tend to forget that I watched them or anything that happens in them.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Yeah, I have, I have object permanence issues with, with like pieces of pop culture.

BOBBY:  This people dedicate their whole lives to making these TV shows, the craft, the artistry of it and Alex is like watch for two minutes shut off, forget.

ALEX:  I’m watching Yellowstone.

BOBBY:  Oh, hell yeah. I really want to watch that. I don’t have Paramount plus.

ALEX:  It’s a, peacock. If I think the first two seasons are on Peacock.

BOBBY:  I don’t have that either. Those are the only two that I don’t have. I was like NBC.

ALEX:  No.

BOBBY:  Staunch anti-NBC stance. No, I just didn’t I chose. Those were like the last few that came around for whatever reason. And I was like, I’m not going to pay $200 a month in streaming, just not.

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s fine.

BOBBY:  I have everything else does. So do you want to exchange some passwords after we get off the pod? I know you don’t–

ALEX:  You use your own Peacock.

BOBBY:  I know you don’t, I know you don’t. You must be using your mom’s or something.

ALEX:  Actually, I think that’s the only one I do–

BOBBY:  Wow.

ALEX:  –own. I think that’s the only one I’m actually paying. 

BOBBY:  Alex says the Peacock plug.

ALEX:  Yeah, hit me up. Slide in my DMs. If anyone wants the password.

BOBBY:  [55:48] don’t have. Middle America King, Alex Bazeley.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly. The succession of the heartland, baby.

BOBBY:  My parents love Yellowstone. Mom, my mom’s a big Costner head.

ALEX:  It’s good. It’s like corny as hell, sometimes, honestly.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  But as, but you know, it’s, it’s someone who has an appreciation for the, for the flyover states–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –you know. Who tries to spurn my coastal elite status from time to time. I–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –I have, I have a lot of respect for it. I’m–

BOBBY:  Where does that take place, again? Wyoming?

ALEX:  Montana.

BOBBY:  Montana.

ALEX:  Montana, Wyoming, kind of it’s–

BOBBY:  It’s across state lines–

ALEX:  –across to each other, so you know.

BOBBY:  That was good, flyover people really like when you just say that their states are the same state.

ALEX:  As I say [56:31]–

BOBBY:  [56:31] point–

ALEX:  –I have a much respect. Uhm, I I don’t, I actually watch more movies and I watch TV shows as of late. I just do not have the attention span to dedicate like, weeks of time.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I’m with you. Movies are the perfect medium. Even so they’re too long most of the time now.

ALEX:  Yes, exactly [56:51]–

BOBBY:  Movies should not be more than a 100–

ALEX:  –90 minute movie.

BOBBY:  –a 100 minutes max.

ALEX:  It’s ridiculous.

BOBBY:  I love the take that movie should be 90 minutes or 4 hours, nothing in between. Unlike podcasts, which should all be 45 minutes, according to everybody on the internet.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Who writes about podcasts.

ALEX:  I mean, at least [57:09]–

BOBBY:  And choose like 10 shows for their best 10 podcasts of the year list.

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  Only 45 minutes though. 45 minutes of dead air put it at number seven.

ALEX:  That’s the only reason why we haven’t been put on any of these lists.

BOBBY:  We should be on one of these lists. Like–

ALEX:  Right, exactly [57:27]–

BOBBY:  –these are getting [57:27]–That we should be on there, top 10 leftist podcasts about baseball. Boom! Us! Probably like number three.

ALEX:  Probably. That’s the thing about like, two hour like two and a half hour movies. Is it like they’re usually just slightly too long for me to watch. I’m like okay, I have a couple hours to watch a movie. But I want to make some popcorn real quick. And I know I have to do bathroom break.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Because I’ve the bladder of a small child.

BOBBY:  Uh-huh.

ALEX:  What, you know, I can’t, then two and a half hours becomes like a, like a three hour thing and then all of a sudden it’s like I I need to go to bed.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Or or more likely my significant other needs to go to bed. Which to means I do as well, like–

BOBBY:  So what movies of the last year have you been really into? I I was super into The Power of the Dog. Saw that with–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –friend of the–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –podcast, former guest of the podcast, former roommate, Zack Martin. When saw that and a great flick, well theater in Glendale, low power the De Faria. Little Benedict Cumberbatch, love that guy.

ALEX:  Yup, power power the D.

BOBBY:  [58:37] seriousness though, it’s funny that that that film has been named to death. Because Jane Campion is like truly one of the great cinema artists of our lifetimes. And now people are just like doing beams on Twitter about–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –Bronco Henry.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Which I think–

ALEX:  About the movie that [58:52]–

BOBBY:  –[58:52] perfect of culture.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah, definitely gonna win Best Picture.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Love Dune, I really enjoyed King Richard. Those are probably the three movies that jumped to mind definitely forgetting some probably like our speeds. I mean, I saw that as well. I don’t know if you saw that if you tuned into that one yet.

ALEX:  I know that you’ve been–

BOBBY:  Really on the vanguard of the discourse about that with all of your burners.

ALEX:  I, because it has not hit streaming of any sort or been released sometimes in online in some capacity. I’m unable to–

BOBBY:  You live in New York or no excuse you could have seen it.

ALEX:  Yeah, I know, I just, I don’t–

BOBBY:  I I understand.

ALEX:  –lazy.

BOBBY:  Understand. Movie tickets. It’s it’s not that comfortable to go to the movie theater yet still, pandemic related, for pandemic related reasons. Still a little bit, still a little bit says. I just watched the first season of True Detective. I’d never seen it. I’ll tell you what. That’s the season the TV right there. It’s fucked up, deeply fucked up.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  But very good. I was tweeting True Detective memes from the Tipping Pitches account. I skin them off.

ALEX:  God, what years it?

BOBBY:  Honestly though, it’s a good bit, watching stuff five years late, and not knowing what anybody else that you like thinks about it.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  And then just tweeting about it like it’s in the present moment. There’s anything that streaming has given us it’s that.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, it’s like, eternally, eternally ubiquity of pop culture. It’s great. This is you and I discover the internet for the first time.

BOBBY:  And we show for it on our podcast. Anything that you’re looking forward to coming up? Watching in the spring, Alex asks. I’m really looking forward the Killers of the Flower Moon, which is Martin Scorsese movie. Which is about a book that I finally finished reading. As I was reading when we were on–

ALEX:  Took a few years.

BOBBY:  –vacation together, took a few years. It actually only took like a, like, a few weeks after I started reading it, but–

ALEX:  Right, exactly.

BOBBY:  It’s very good book. I don’t think that’s coming out in the Spring now. So I don’t know what the hell I’m gonna watch. Shout out to a friend of the podcast. Jen Mack Ramos, who is doing a rewatch of How I Met Your Mother. I’m doing the same thing, because Phoebe loves that show. So we decided to dive in. It’s pretty funny, holds up better than you think it would be. Way better than like Friends.

ALEX:  Oh, God.

BOBBY:  And I’ve never seen Seinfeld. So I can’t comment on that.

ALEX:  Seinfeld is one of those shows that like, it just comedy has changed so much in the last like 25–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –years.

BOBBY:  We’re not talking about comedy and how it’s changed.

ALEX:  I love saying is like the things that we thought were funny, like 25 years ago, you’re like, oh, this just the jokes just aren’t all that all that great. Which–

BOBBY:  I think, I just, now that we’re at the end of the podcast, I’d like to get my take out about how comedians are the real, the real squires of our time.

ALEX:  Oh, they’re the tweets tellers.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. The cultural critics. They lead society in the direction that it needs to go.

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  I just thought I would, I would like to say that at the end of this podcast.

ALEX:  Thank you for, thanks for putting that up there and in the universe.

BOBBY:  I’d like to thank them for what they do for society. It goes, it goes–

ALEX:  It’s not an easy job.

BOBBY:  Nurses, teachers, firefighters, comedians, just on the heels, you know. They’re running into the burning building of discourse and takes. And I thank them for that.

ALEX:  The true first responders.

BOBBY:  First repliers.

ALEX:  I I just want to say real quick, I I watched C’mon C’mon. With with–

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  Joaquin Phoenix. Goat, great, great flick, great flick. And, and I watched Marie Antoinette, which I’d never seen before. That’s another great flick. Kirsten Dunst. Impeccable, impeccable work.

BOBBY:  Yeah. She’s from–

ALEX:  Young, young Sofia Coppola, just going off.

BOBBY:  She’s, Sofia Coppola’s very talented. Thank you for her contributions to cinema history.

ALEX:  Thank you for her contributions to this podcast, which I don’t know. I don’t know–

BOBBY:  Talking about [1:03:00]–

ALEX:  How I [1:03:00] come up on Tipping Pitches, but here we are. I think that’s an indication that the episode is over.

BOBBY:  See, Alex, thank you for asking that question. Alex. Bazeley, thank you for hosting this podcast with me. Please call in and ask good questions like these, 785-4225881. You can write in, tippingpitchespod@gmail.com. You can DM us tipping_pitches on Twitter. And we will talk to you next week.

[1:03:25]

[Music]

[1:03:34]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodFebruary 10, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB CBA, MLB federal mediator, MLB lockout, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on Mediator? I Barely Know Her	
A League Built on Trust (feat. Jim Quinn)

Alex and Bobby discuss the latest CBA proposals, and how difficult it is to grade the relative success of the union when so much of the picture is still incomplete. Then, they’re joined by Jim Quinn, lead counsel in a court case intended to challenge MLB’s anti-trust exemption at the Supreme Court level. Jim shares the history of the exemption, the myriad attempts to repeal it (and why they failed), and what is different about this case.

Links:

Maury Brown on the anti-trust exemption and baseball owners’ economic standing

Songs featured in this episode:

Robert Palmer — “(Love Is) The Tender Trap” • Taylor Swift — “the last great american dynasty” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People are home on the stand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, before we started recording, this your podcast that the listener is so graciously listening to right now, on a Thursday, a day that we don’t typically put out episodes of Tipping Pitches, at least not anymore. In our early days, we used to just kind of release whenever it was ready. You know, it’s just like, no, no, no publish date. No regularity, no schedule, just vibes. If you’ve been around since then, congratulations to you for making it this far. I don’t know how you did. But before we started recording, you mentioned that instead of talking about labor negotiations, collective bargaining, the owners versus the players. All the stuff that we usually do here, playing the hits. You wanted to do a 30-minute monopod about Curt Schilling. So I’m actually going to get out of here. And I’ll leave the Zoom up and running. I’m going to go finish packing some boxes that I need to–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –pack. And I’m just going to let you kind of descend into deliriousness while talking about the Hall of Fame candidacy of Curt Schilling here. Does that sound good with you?

ALEX:  Yeah, that’s great. Actually, I can, if, if you listen closely, you can hear all of the listeners getting out of here as well. I can hear them closing their podcast apps one by one. This is great. It’s just me, I can say whatever I want.

BOBBY:  I’d like to hear it, to be honest. You you know, like a Patreon kind of vibe, like you have to perform it. Maybe that’s a good idea for our Patreon. You know, not like doing an extra episode of like real Tipping Pitches core, but doing an extra episode, where you have to like pretend to be a sports radio host every week. I feel like people would pay for that.

ALEX:  I’m just leaving silence there, because that’s what you would have to deal with as a radio host. Just doing it yourself. You just–

BOBBY:  The FCC is like finding you for dead air. 

ALEX:  It’s just you and your thoughts bouncing around. There’s nothing you can do.

BOBBY:  I alluded to the fact that I had to go pack some boxes. That is actually true. As you are listening to this podcast, I am driving across the country, moving from Los Angeles to Brooklyn. So that is why we’re releasing this episode on Thursday. We had to record it ahead of time. And because of the nature of some of this news about the collective bargaining we didn’t want to wait a full week to release this episode. Later in the episode, we have a conversation with Jim Quinn, who was one of the lead lawyers putting together the suit to try and rollback MLB’s antitrust exemption. Which is really cool conversation about stuff that we talk about every week, that colors this podcast every week. So I’m excited [3:03]–

ALEX:  [3:03] someone who can talk about it with a little bit of expertise, and not us just yelling back and forth and saying they should just get rid of the damn thing. He’s the guy who’s [3:11]–

BOBBY:  Wouldn’t be nice? He’s not just saying wouldn’t it be nice? He’s actually–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –acting upon whether it be nice.

ALEX:  Firing of tweet threads.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly. So that’s later in this episode, but I I wanted to get into some of the news that we got as we sit here and record this on January 25th, on Tuesday. About how collective bargaining is going and a couple other small news items maybe. Be a couple Stu Sternberg quotes just for the deep cuts. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[3:41]

[Music Theme]

ALEX:  Bobby our split city plan is dead.

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  We’ve been, we’ve been doing the, doing the by coastal thing, you know?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Half of us out here on the East Coast, half of half of us out there on the West Coast. And you know what, I I don’t know, I’m I’m getting a little it’s a little bittersweet for me that this era is ending, you know. I think that it’s been very good for us, for our podcast. It’s made it way easier. Certainly doing everything through a screen technology famously never fails.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  Famously also one always remember to hit the record button when there’s–

BOBBY:  That’s right.

ALEX:  –and you’re doing–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –through a computer. So–

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm. See, much like the Rays, neither of these are home games for us.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  The Rays don’t play many home games in Tampa, because their, their park is like all the way across the freeway. That’s very hard to get to for most people who were actually Rays fans. And then their their games in Montreal wouldn’t be home games either. Because the actual Montreal fans would be like, why aren’t you the Expos? How did you steal our team and then stick us with the team that won’t spend more than $70 million on payroll? And I’m not from the West Coast and you’re not from the East Coast and yet I’m on the West Coast. and you’re on the East Coast. So we’ve actually really modeled our podcast. No, we did this first actually.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  The Rays model, they’re playing off us.

ALEX:  Yeah. Still waiting for those consulting checks to hit. They have, they have bounced thus far. Probably because of Stu, Stuart Sternberg’s small pockets at the moment. Yeah, it’s dead, Bobby, the split-city plan. Are you, are you bummed? Do do you think that this was in the words of Stu Sternberg that the wave of the future in professional sports?

BOBBY:  The wave of the future is having to travel very far to play your own home games, that’s the wave of the future. Nevermind all this discussion about limiting air travel to try to combat climate change, nevermind any of that. More on that on the Tipping Pitches feed to come in the future. Stu Sternberg was going the other way, bro. Who’s going the other way. We don’t have a ton of time to talk about Sternberg and his quotes around the two-city plan. I’m personally I’m I’m just hoping that it has long as, it has as long of a shelf life as the 100 million dollar lawsuit about moving the All-Star game out of Atlanta. Like we can keep getting quotes out of this. And we can keep getting people mad every three weeks just like press the reset button zero days since person got mad about X. I want to talk about Stu Sternberg being like, No one comes to my games. And me being like, I wonder if anyone who’s giving this quote here might share some responsibility and the reason for that? Do you think anybody does? Do you think anybody should maybe take a long look in the mirror about why people don’t come to your park? Which is very far away from where two people could easily access that park. To see a team that trades away all of those fans favorite players every three years and refuses to ever actually pay them long term, term contracts to retain their services.

ALEX:  That was a that was kind of a long way of saying reaping, I I believe is is what’s going on here. You look around and you say, hmm, who who made this bed in which I hear sleep.

BOBBY:  The the dirty truth of it, Alex, is that he’s fine with the bed. Because the bed is is actually $85 million per year worth of local TV revenue, that he gets rain or shine. So he actually is just sleeping on the money. So he doesn’t really care about anything it’s [7:39]

ALEX:  This is just such a bizarre situation at the Rays end and I really feel for their fans speaking as a speaking as a as a fan of a team that actually rhymes with Rays. Who has been, yes, if you can figure that one out.

BOBBY:  I know you’re Canadian.

ALEX:  Oh, hey, there we go. I thought maybe there was one team that rhymed with that. And–

BOBBY:  No.

ALEX:  –that’s I’m just I’m really just–

BOBBY:  Blue Jays.

ALEX:  –my myself center Padres.

BOBBY:  Padres. Should we keep going mysteries as [8:15]–

ALEX:  Oh, I’m trying to say sympathize, man, this sucks to get jerked around by ownership like this, right? That the team is saying that they don’t have plans right now to look into other markets. Stu Sternberg has said that he is not really interested in selling the team either. And so now things kind of come to this weird limbo standstill.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Where he very clearly does not want the team to exist in the form that it exists in, but he doesn’t really have a choice.

BOBBY:  This is like when when you’re doing a group project. And there’s like five different tasks and there are five different members of the group. And Stu Sternberg is like, I’m not interested in doing any of these tasks. So somebody–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –else has to do all of them and I’ll just–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –take credit for it at the end. It’s kind of–

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  –Baseball ownership is operating right now. I just think it’s hypocritical of you, to have this take while also wearing a Billy Beane A’s jersey. A custom made Billy Beane A’s jersey as we sit here and record this pod.

ALEX:  You’re going to tell me he doesn’t work just as hard as Matt Chapman?

BOBBY:  More hours probably.

ALEX:  He hits intellectual homeruns.

BOBBY:  He’s doing lat pull downs while Matt Chapman is striking out. Oh, Matt Chapman’s hitting 205. There’s Billy Beane, doing more lat pull downs.

ALEX:  Yep, that’s right. He gets, he gets those gold gloves on the spreadsheet.

BOBBY:  Okay, we should probably talk about collective bargaining. Do you wanna talk about collective bargaining?

ALEX:  I guess, man.

BOBBY:  it’s ostensibly the reason that we’re releasing this podcast when we’re releasing this podcast instead of waiting a full week. MLB and the MLB Players Association had two separate days of meetings this week, on Monday and Tuesday. Once again, it’s it’s infuriating the way that this news trickles out. The way that everybody reacts to it immediately. And then more news trickles out and then everybody reacts the exact opposite way. It’s just, it’s whiplash. It’s very exhausting. But I wanted to talk about the most recent set of proposals. Like I said, we’re recording this on January 25th. I’m going to read you a tweet from Jeff Passan, which is a favorite pastime of Tipping Pitches. “Labor talks are over. Here’s what happened.” Can you imagine it was just labor talks are over.

ALEX:  That’s it.

BOBBY:  Period.

ALEX:  That’s the game folks.

BOBBY:  “MLB agreed to accept parameters of a pre-arbitration bonus pool for top 30 WAR. MLBPA seeking $105M”, for the size of that bonus pool. “League offered $10M. MLB offered minimum raise to $615K. MLBPA wants $775K. MLB withdrew offer to change arbitration structure.” That’s everything that happened today, Alex. Yesterday, we got news that the MLB Players Association withdrew their proposal of reaching free agency after five years of service time, instead of six years of service time. We also found out that that withdrawal came alongside MLB, the MLBPA, asking for a higher luxury tax threshold as they have in this whole time. As well as fundamental changes to the structure of the revenue sharing plan. Which would limit the amount of money that would be sent to smaller market teams. Because they’re not actually spending it and it’s hurting competitiveness that they get these checks. That is the MLBPA official stance. So that’s a lot of details for you, about what has gone on in the last two days. How do you, Alex Bazeley, synthesize those details about what is going on? Take it in any direction you want, people’s reaction to it. Chess moves that are happening at the table, future of the sport, whatever you really want to talk about you can.

ALEX:  I guess the thing that was kind of left out of that reading of the details was that we need to be thinking about the owners in this situation, as well [11:52]–

BOBBY:  Right, [11:52] obviously T’s and P’s the owner.

ALEX:  Well, I will, I will I will go I will refer you to one Dick Monfort. He owns the Colorado Rockies, you may know.

BOBBY:  This is so true. And honestly–

ALEX:  Make money and cattle buying as we now famously know.

BOBBY:  I can’t believe I forgot to mention this, I’m so sorry. To Dick Monfort and the entire Montfort family to be honest.

ALEX:  Yeah, well, so you know, he pointed out he made the good point that some owners don’t make much money.

BOBBY:  True.

ALEX:  And that and that COVID measures and security needs are also costing money. You know, the basically the things that you need to run your business–

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  –are not free. Hmm.

BOBBY:  This again, this goes back to my, my question to you last week. What, what are the owners offering? You know, like if they basically just buy these teams and let them sit. Like they’re not really trying to win World Series. They’re not injecting new capital into these teams with the exception of Steve Cohen apparently. Uhm, so what are they actually offering and Dick Monfort was like, thank you for asking that question on your podcast, Tipping Pitches. I love it. I’m offering nothing. And I would like to offer even less.

ALEX:  Yes.

BOBBY:  Like, well, what?

ALEX:  And like, part of the way I interpret this is like, I don’t know, it strikes me as a very unserious act, right? If they are still kind of doing this song and dance of crying poor. It indicates to me that they maybe are not actually ready to discuss the things that need to be discussed, right? If they’re still kind of doing this posturing to try and sway favor towards the owners. Whether it’s from the players, whether it’s from the media, whether it’s from the fans. And we have gotten some movement in the last day or two, as you laid out. Its some proposals were, were adjusted, and some were withdrawn. And they were some places where the two sides agreed that there was a solution that needed to be found, right? In a place like, like arbitration.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that the one side being MLB who said that they actually wanted to get rid of arbitration 48 hours ago. And now they’re actually like, wait, no, we can keep arbitration. The thing that one of the founding principles of the Major League Baseball players union, yeah, we–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –keep that.

ALEX:  But like the, quotes that trickle out like these from owners are so farcical. That it’s like hard for me to take the negotiations even seriously. Which is a weird position to be in because I also feel like the owners really do not want to lose games. As much as, the league actually came out the other day and said we’re willing to lose games.

BOBBY:  My we’re willing to lose game shirt has a lot of people asking questions already answered by my shirt.

ALEX:  You know what I mean, like there’s there is so much money at stake there. That it kind of runs counter to this idea of like, we’re not making much money, therefore we’re willing to hold hostage, the thing that makes us our money.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I mean, I think you point out something really important here. Which is that, it actually does seem like MLB does not want to escape. I mean, despite what they say, in the press, recent guests of the pod Maury Brown had a really informative I thought thread about this. Which is not sourced or anything like that, or is just kind of like reading the tea leaves. He he talked about this quote from Dan Halem, who is handling the negotiations on the, on the league side, along with Rob Manfred. Saying that they they’d be willing to lose games. And more he had a, as he always does, and informed business, I’d take about this in that, in 2020, when they shorten the amount of games to 60, instead of the full 162, it was just much discussed how that was the number of games that MLB could play, and still get paid their full regional sports network deal from whatever the original RSN was for each team. So they only played 60 games, but they got paid as if they played 162. That’s not forever. According to Maury from his thread, he lays out how they got paid that because the deal says, hey, you get paid that but if for whatever reason, you don’t play that many games. You have to pay that back to us in future years, in the form of rebates. So they will not be making the full amount from their RSN they’re accustomed to, for the next five years. It’ll be spread out or whatever, I don’t know if it’s actually five years. But they will spread these rebates out for the, for the foreseeable future until these rebates are made good. So the financial situation for the owners, that financial picture is being informed by the fact that yeah, that the the pandemic actually did hurt their bottom line. It’s like one of the first things to come along and hurt their bottom line in a long time. I think that’s an interesting, I think we should bring it all the way back to Dick Monfort. And talk about how, what he’s complaining about is perfect fodder for what the MLB Players Association was trying to say all along, during the return to play negotiations. Which is we don’t get to share when Baseball has a killer year. We get paid the same amount no matter what. So why are you trying to give us a haircut when Baseball is having a down here? And that’s exactly what Dick Monfort is still whining about any chance that he gets. He’s still, him and all of the rest of the owners are still talking about, oh, all of these things that we had to do to ensure that our business was allowed to go on without literal human beings literally dying during a pandemic. Oh, no, it was so expensive to do all of that stuff. And I’m like, isn’t that just what being a business owner is? But didn’t every single business owner have to do all of that? And it’s so tone deaf for you to complain about having to do all that stuff. Still 20 months later, when you’re back to the same business model that you’ve always been accustomed to. Raking in gate receipts, and RSNs at the same time.

ALEX:  Yeah. And it’s, and it’s why with all of these kind of new proposals that roll out that have rolled out over the ver–the past few weeks and months, and over the last year, really. It’s hard to even comment on them, because some of them are so far out there, that it doesn’t even really make sense why it’s on the table or why the players would be considerate. Take, take the the minimum salary kind of discussion, for example.

BOBBY:  Yeah. Which time to get into policy wonk territory.

ALEX:  Yeah, exactly.

BOBBY:  Talking about numbers. Big Paul Ryan energy. Let’s do it.

ALEX:  I’m not even, I don’t even have the numbers up here in front of me. Like, I’m just, you know–

BOBBY:  Technocrat Alex.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. The, the, you know, the players proposed what amounted to probably like a 30-ish percent increase that would bump the, the minimum salary up from the, you know, the, like, 560K range that it’s in right now to somewhere–

BOBBY:  Somewhere like 755, yeah.

ALEX:  Right. Yeah, exactly. The the league obviously offered something much, much smaller than that, right? It was like 550, up to like, 590, or something, you know, like something like, absolutely meaningless.

BOBBY:  Most recently, they’ve offered 615. Which is–

ALEX:  Okay, there we go.

BOBBY:  –closer, but not that close.

ALEX:  Yeah. Did you know that that’s a salary cap, too, for those players? Did you know that teams under this current proposal would not be allowed to pay these players more? It likes, let’s say for example, you think, well, I want to build a little goodwill with my young star here and pay him slightly more–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –than this salary. You know, you can’t do?

BOBBY:  That.

ALEX:  That. Why. like the league is so clearly trying to lowball the players in these certain corners.

BOBBY:  They’re building collusion into the CBA, bro.

ALEX:  Yeah, yeah.

BOBBY:  I mean, throw throw aside your politics for a while, [20:04].

ALEX:  You got [20:08]

BOBBY:  [20:08] and hand it to MLB rescinding my previous statement, kind of clever. No, I, I agree, it’s it’s very hard to react to these proposals. Unless we were doing like, the drivetime radio show that day. Or we were doing like breaking news reactions on ESPN or something like that. Not that they would ever let us to break these reactions about labor things on ESPN. It’s it’s hard to talk about it, because it’s going to change so soon. And how do you grade something that is incomplete with a grade anything other than incomplete? Because I saw a lot of people being like, okay, MLB withdrew their proposal to lower the service time years that you have to have to reach free agency. So they had a proposal on the table that was like, you only have to play five years to hit trueblue free agency, like you can go sign with any team that you want to. And they read through that proposal. And they are accepting that you still have to serve six years in MLB, to get to free agency. Now they made the calculation clearly that it was better to fight over the arbitration system and structure and the minimum raise for zero through three players. Then it was to put all of their union political capital into fighting over getting that one year back of service time before you hit your honest, free agency. And if that’s what they did, and they pulled their members or they, they took the statistics of what their members are making. And they said, if we get X change to pre-arb players or our players, will it be worth more than the players who actually make it five years into the league and get a free agency deal? If they did all that work? Which, look, they’re professional union. They definitely did all that work, then you you can’t grade that yet. Because we don’t have a Collective Bargaining Agreement yet. And there’s a lot of people who are like, why are they giving up all of this stuff? Or why is MLB negotiating in bad faith? And why is the Players Association responded to them if they’re negotiating in bad faith? Which is also by the way, a legal term, and MLB is not negotiating in bad faith, unfortunately. In layman’s terms, they are but not in the actual legal terms. It’s just very hard because you don’t know which things at the bargaining table are linked. If I had to guess MLB said, we will withdraw our proposal to get rid of arbitration if you withdraw your proposal to reach free agency after five years of service time. That’s what I felt like when I saw that news trickle out. So unless you’re at the table, and you saw that, and you talked to the members after that, or you’re on the Executive Subcommittee, how can you say that was the wrong decision? It’s very hard. And I come back to what you said last week, Alex, which is MLBPA is acutely aware of what it will feel like, what it will look like the heat with which they will face if they lose a bunch of games. Even if it’s not their fault at all, which you know, we agree that it’s not their fault. But they’re acutely aware of that. And if you’re someone who’s like, the player should get everything they want to, you also have to be someone who’s like, hell, yeah, let’s let’s lose the season. Like those two things are not mutually exclusive. It’s what it’s what you’ve very perfectly distilled last week, when we were discussing the way that different media talk about this. Those two things are hand in hand, period. No ownership group, in any sector, anywhere in the world, is going to just give you these things before it actually starts to hurt them. It’s just not the way that it works under capitalism.

ALEX:  Yeah, well said. I don’t think I have anything to add to that. Obviously, it kind of remains to be seen what, what comes out of the next few sessions. I don’t even know that we know if they’re any on the books at the moment. You know, I you know, at the end of the day, I’m going to, I’m going to go back to our friend John Heyman, who just who distilled it, who distilled it quite nicely. In a tweet today. At least they’re talking, at least they’re talking, Bobby. At least they are, they’re getting down and dirty. They’re in a room together. They’re–

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  –rolling up their sleeves.

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  And they’re and they’re doing the damn thing you know, and can you really fault them for that? No matter what the outcome is, they’re, they’re doing their darndest.

BOBBY:  This is how the sausage gets made. If you want to eat the sausage, this is how it gets made.

ALEX:  Yep, a sure got off the pot.

BOBBY:  You’re up shit creek without a paddle. How many can we say that? Maybe it has nothing to do with this. Can I really quickly talk about the, because this is actually interesting. This is, this is news to us about the negotiations. The pre-arbitration bonus pool for players who finished in the top 30 wins above replacement. Number one, no idea who’s wins above replacement we’re talking about here. It probably has to be a proprietary formula that both sides agree on. That’s based on something approaching, the difference stats sites, GanGraphs, baseball prospectus, baseball reference, etc.

ALEX:  Famously, WAR is perfect.

BOBBY:  This is going to invite somebody WAR what is it good for jokes. I can’t even, it’s very upsetting. The MLBPA would like that pool to be $105 million, which gets distributed. The league would like that pool to be $10 million. And I saw a lot of people being like, what the fuck we’ve been doing this for? Like $10 million dollars, that’s such an insult. And I’m like, this is how these things work, when it’s, when it’s just numbers that we’re talking about, you start and you’re like, yes, I’d like $1 billion in cash right now. Like that’s how the negotiations–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

BOBBY:  –start. And that’s actually a good sign that they’re agreeing on the parameters as passed and laid out. MLB agreed to accept the parameters of a pre-arb bonus pool. That’s more money that is going to pre-arb players that was not entitled to them before.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That’s a legitimate concession from the owners, hate to say it, hate to say it, but I’m a truth teller, I call it like I see it, Alex. And it’s not the right amount. Like, if it were up to me, they would get all of the money, there would be no owners. But that’s a legitimate concession. And the amount of it, they’ll just have to go in and in and in. But what you can’t do is you can’t send back a proposal that is exactly the same as you’ve sent prior. And you can’t send back a proposal that is actually better for your players than prior. Because that’s what’s called regressive bargaining, which is illegal. So yeah, you have to start at 105 million, which is you can never go above that. Unless you change something else about the total economic package that you’re delivering back to them. There are laws here, you know what I mean? And it’s like, it’s very hard to tell from the outside. What was done to follow the laws versus what was done is like a blackjack strategy. I think people think that this is all like, you sit down at the table, and you’re like, one man trying to best another man in a business negotiation Logan Roy style, and it’s just not how this works at all.

ALEX:  No, because then the players would would win. Are you kidding me? Standing face to face with Max Scherzer, you’re gonna tell me you wouldn’t give him anything he asked for?

BOBBY:  [27:11]

ALEX:  My God, exactly.

BOBBY:  I already gave him exactly what he asked for and potentially, potentially even more. Okay, let’s bring in Jim Quinn. Like I said he is the one of the two names lawyers leading the lawsuit to try to repeal MLB’s antitrust exemption handed up by the Supreme Court in 1922. We’ve talked about this a little bit on the show. Obviously, this would have wide ranging implications for MLB’s entire business model. Which is why they’re gonna throw themselves in front of this in any way they can. This comes, this news comes, it it came out a couple of weeks ago, and we talked about it when it did. On the heels of MLB, kind of taking control of Minor League Baseball, under this vision of Rob Manfred, since he’s been the Commissioner of One Baseball. Kind of pulling everything collectively, under Major League Baseball’s wing, and making decisions that will benefit those 30 clubs at the top. And, you know, as we discussed when they contract to these 42 Minor League teams screwing over a lot of people in the process. And some of those people who are screwed over are the plaintiffs in this lawsuit. That the lawsuit alleges that MLB essentially colluded together in an anti competitive way. Where they chose which 42 teams would be eliminated, the teams had nothing to say about it, they didn’t have a chance to bid to be one of the teams that stays they didn’t have a chance to make a case for themselves. They didn’t have a chance to succeed on their own. They were just kind of eliminated by these 30 owners, who are essentially also supposed to be competing businesses with each other. And they were just like, No, we’re we’re knocking these companies off the face of the earth. Which is what happened, which is illegal in every other industry. Now, you might say happens de facto in other industries. But it’s technically illegal in other industries to collude with your competitors across company lines, to eliminate other companies. And this lawsuit will challenge that action, under the grounds that this antitrust exemption should no longer exist.

ALEX:  They’re only representing four of the 40 Minor League teams that were eliminated Staten Island Yankees being one of them. But they’re basically saying this was a, this was an illegal restraint of trade. This–

BOBBY:  Oh, yeah.

ALEX:  –this is a market that exists.

BOBBY:  Teddy Roosevelt is fist pumping in his grave, bro. Majorly League Baseball is is the only defendant named by the way. And all 30 individual teams are named as co-conspirators, which I absolutely just love. I love it.

ALEX:  Yes. It’s It’s true. It’s how, that works.

BOBBY:  It’s basically like listening to this pod.

ALEX:  Jim Quinn is the guy to talk to you about this and he probably would be the guy to talk to about this. Even if he wasn’t the, even if he was wasn’t one of the lead attorneys on this case. You know, his he has a decades of experience in litigation law and arbitration law and sports law. Specifically, he has represented all four of the major professional sports unions here in the United States. He currently has a, has a lawsuit right now in which he’s representing the City of Oakland against the NFL. This is, this is not his first time around the block, you could say when it comes to sports law, and–

BOBBY:  Taking on the league.

ALEX:  –litigation.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Yes. Yeah, literally.

BOBBY:  All right, so let’s go talk to Jim Quinn, about getting rid of baseball’s antitrust exemption.

[30:43]

[Transition Music]

ALEX:  Okay, Bobby, we are joined now by a very special guest. We are in our law bag this week. We’re joined by Jim Quinn of Berg & Androphy. He is a, one of the more important lawyers in probably sports law history I’d say. He has, he has represented all the the Players Associations of the four major US professional sports. And and he has a very interesting case right now going up against Major League Baseball. Jim, welcome to the podcast.

JIM:  I’m glad to be here.

ALEX:  So we have we’ve talked long and hard about Major League Baseball’s antitrust exemption. And the the kind of bizarre state that it finds itself in and 2022 as the the only the only professional sport with this sort of exemption. And Jim, you have a a case right now representing four of the contracted former Minor League Baseball teams, that that kind of rose after Major League Baseball eliminated the the 40 teams a couple years ago. Can you talk us through this case, kind of kind of how it came together? And what it is that you guys are arguing?

JIM:  Yeah, sure. I mean, we we actually were originally filed a series of lawsuits on behalf of several of the teams in state actions that are still pending. But essentially, those cases are tort and breach of contract cases that arose out of the fact that these four teams were eliminated in the takeover by Major League Baseball of Minor League Baseball. And we kind of played it, whether or not we could bring an antitrust claim, in the first instance, and decided that given the current state of law, that we would, we would differ on that. And then as I’m sure you’re aware, last last summer, I guess, or spring, the Supreme Court came down with its ruling in the NCAA case. And, and the in the majority opinion, or also in the concurring opinion, they went out of their way to take a shot at the Baseball exemption. Which we could talk about the the the background of but essentially saying that it was an anomaly anomaly, it was anachronistic. And was probably something that was doomed to go into the trash barrel of history. And once we focused on that, we decided this was the time to take a shot at seeing whether or not we could get the Supreme Court to overrule its prior rulings that related to the Baseball exemption. So that’s what really got us motivated to file a separate anti trust losses on behalf of these four teams. Basically saying that the the team, the Major League Baseball teams, which are competitors. These are the Minor League teams have got together and clu–clusively and illegally eliminated 42 teams when they took over Minor League Baseball.

BOBBY:  Before I want to talk about Austin. But before we do, I wanted to kind of go even further into the trash bin of history if we can. And talk about–

JIM:  [34:30]

BOBBY:  –the original formation of the exemption and and why in your estimation. It came about then and then how if you could lay out for our listeners who don’t know the the sort of history of it and where it stands today and what you’re actually challenging. What has been rolled back about it so far? So what it was originally given, it was kind of given to all of MLB’s business. But the business looked very different back then than it does now of course. And now there have been successive legal actions that have rolled back. Some of those abilities of MLB to claim antitrust exemption against some kinds of suits and cases. Can you talk about what is left of that original exemption?

JIM:  Well–

BOBBY:  What–

JIM:  –actually the the major, the major carve out from the exemption occurred in 1998, with the Curt Flood Act. Which was consensual in the sense that it was part of the the settlement of the, of the strike slash lockout in 1995. Where the union and the owners, the union insisted that the owners agree to go to Congress and get a exemption from the exemption. And so the players, the major league players, that is, are no longer subject to the NHS exemption and, and subject to other issues that we we could belabor, but I won’t get into unless you want to. They they now have any trust rights. But beyond that, in a number of other areas, the Baseball exemption, including relating to Minor League Baseball and minor league players continues to continues to exist. And there have been challenges, a number of challenges over the years to the exemption. And the lower courts have all as they have to have a followed the Supreme Court prior rulings in this area. And so far, the Supreme Court free Austin has not deign to take, take up one of the cases. We think that this case is given what happened in Austin, we think that this is a this is a time to, to challenge it.

BOBBY:  I wanted to ask you about one of those cases that they actually did take though, which is Flood V. Kuhn, which listeners of this show are most familiar with. Because we’ve talked a lot about Curt Flood and what he’s done for MLB players labor rights. The Supreme Court siding with MLB, in that case is kind of fascinating to me. And I was wondering if before we talk about this present, when you could maybe give a little bit of that brief history of that one and why?

JIM:  Oh, sure. I look, the the exemption arose out of a case back in the early 1920s, called Federal Baseball, which was challenged by a team. Actually, it was it was the team was, was a forerunner of the Baltimore Orioles. But it was in a different league, the Federal League. And for a variety of reasons the Federal League went bust. And the this team the or the Orioles, the Baltimore team brought a lawsuit. Challenging the manner in which then existing Major League Baseball had run Federal, the Federal League out of business, and they brought it under the antitrust laws. And in a bizarre ruling, but even it was bizarre even back then, the court ruled that they didn’t believe that Major League Baseball was in interstate commerce, and that, therefore the antitrust laws didn’t apply. There was a second case in the late 1940s, called Toolson. That involved a baseball player who gone to play in the Mexican League. And when he tried to come back, he was barred. He brought a lawsuit. And the Supreme Court again, pointing back to the Federal Baseball, found that the the exemption continued in that context as well. The third time it came up is the one you’re referring to, Bobby, which is in the Curt Flood case in 1972. And essentially, the court there said, well, this may be somewhat bizarre, because we have previously found that other sports including Football, were subject to the anti trust laws. That was the case that came up in the 1950s.

BOBBY:  Right.

JIM:  And, but yet, we’re going to, with regard to Baseball, we are going to hold on to our our ruling of stare decisis. And if, if this ruling is to be changed, the court said you’ll have to go to Congress. Why they they took up the the Curt Flood case and then ruled in the manner in which they did is still a mystery to me.

BOBBY:  Yes, to me as well. It’s one of the more confounding–

JIM:  It is.

BOBBY:  –in off field things throughout all of Baseball history, to be honest. Because they took the case, they heard the case, it would seem that that was the perfect opportunity for them to sort of go back on a weird exemption–

JIM:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  –that they gave in 1922 and they did not.

JIM:  And they punted. And you know I mean I I have said that the the the the Baseball exemption case, the flood case and its progeny years prior is is somewhere along the lines of the Dred Scott case in terms of Supreme Court jurisprudence. And the Supreme Court knows there’s–

ALEX:  Yeah.

JIM:  –five.

ALEX:  Right.

JIM:  And we now have a different make up of the Supreme Court on a variety of different issues. And if–if they’re seriously thinking about overturning Roe v. Wade, I would think that this is this would be a better use of their time if they want to overturn prior cases.

ALEX:  Yeah, it definitely comes at an interesting time. And you’ve been, you know, referring to this, this case, NCAA versus Austin from last year. Which dealt with non-cash compensation to student athletes for academic purposes. And, and, you know, it really revolved around the NCAA being in violation of antitrust law. And the Supreme Court, as you said, went out of its way to point out how the the court had, you know, kind of dabbled with this antitrust exemption in the past. But but brought up that I you know, they they quote, they quote, past rulings that call it unrealistic and inconsistent and an aberration. And they didn’t, they didn’t have to do this, but they do bring it up. And it kind of invites a sort of challenge to the antitrust exemption. So I mean, in your opinion, why do you think that they, you know, made the choice to actually bring this up in that ruling? And how did it kind of inform how you guys put together [41:47]–

JIM:  But it came up, it was interesting, it came up in the context of essentially, the the NCAA was arguing what was mounted to an exemption of the antitrust laws. They were arguing that because of amateurism. That amateurism should be recognized as a legitimate exemption to the antitrust laws. And what the court said was, we, we have traditionally avoided creating exemptions to the antitrust laws. And in that context, they mentioned the fact that they they had, they had created this bizarre antitrust law, antitrust exemption for Major League Baseball. And I do believe that they were really inviting somebody to come and and see whether or not it was gonna last forever. If so, we’ve accepted the invitation.

BOBBY:  So I wanted to talk a little bit about Minor League Baseball and its current state and what MLB is trying to do with it that invites this specific case against it. So there was used previously 160 teams, MLB decided to sort of pull those Minor League teams a little bit closer under their umbrella and make decisions to ostensibly benefit their business benefit the Major League level clubs, by limiting the amount of teams that they actually had to run and oversee. Can you talk a little bit about why making what seems to be a decision for player development or decision for the MLB, 30 MLB teams clubs business would lead to something that would be in violation of antitrust?

JIM:  Well, yeah, I mean, look, it it the the mere mere fact that it’s a a group of people get together and do something that’s in their best interest, does doesn’t mean that, that the antitrust laws are not implicated. I mean, you know, group of people can get together and say, you know, if we were competitors, and how about we all fixed prices? Now that’s certainly to their benefit, but it it doesn’t, it doesn’t. It doesn’t mean that it it’s something that’s not covered by the any trust laws. And similarly, here, you have a group of of of competitors, 30 teams, who previously had had a larger number of Minor League teams that essentially over time, as I’m sure you know, different Minor League teams affiliate with different clubs over time. There’s essentially, you know, a competition from minor league teams. And what they decided to do is we didn’t want to we don’t want that anymore. Because it’s costing us too much money. We don’t need aren’t in 60 teams. We only need aren’t they decided they collectively they only did aren’t 20 teams. Now that, obviously impacted minor league players at at one level, and I’m sure there’s people out there who are thinking about bringing lawsuits on that, on that ground. But it directly impacted my players because they were running the business.

ALEX:  On on the topic of minor leaguers because we talk a lot about kind of the the condition under which Minor League Baseball players play, right? Obviously, Major League Baseball is effectively exempt from minimum wage laws. In part because of this antitrust exemption, they’re allowed to basically determine the salaries that minor league players are paid. And a potential overturning of this exemption would have a lot of wide ranging implications from everything to expansion and team relocation to possibly leading the way to a Minor League union. Do you see that as a potential possibility? I mean, is this, is this case, the one to maybe open up the path to kind of toppling the rest of these dominoes? Or, or are you more taking on a specific angle of the exemption if that makes sense?

JIM:  Well, I mean, you know, obviously, we’re focused on the injuries that were caused by our individual plaintiffs. But to, a lot of that would depend on the matter if if the Court were to take this case, after we go through the lower courts. And on, on the cert petition, first of all, at least, it would indicate that we’re likely going to make major changes in the mage–in the baseball exemption, although, as you pointed out earlier. Or as was pointed out earlier, that didn’t happen in Flood, although I think it would almost certainly happen if they took the cert. And so it would really depend on the matter the way in which the court, they they could rule in a very narrow way. With regard to our particular situation. I think it’s more likely that they would have a a broader decision that simply eliminated the exemption. And if that were to happen, it would have significant implications on many different levels, including, as you indicated, franchise relocation, certainly how they treat minor league players. And yeah, that probably would very well likely lead to some kind of [47:10].

BOBBY:  How are you expecting MLB to respond to this? I mean, I know it’s hard to sort of predict the future. But what are you expecting from them kind of in the short term to prepare themselves for the very, very realistic possibility that this actually does go all the way up to the Supreme Court?

JIM:  Well, I think, you know, I think they will make a number different kinds of arguments I’ll sure, I’m sure they’ll attack our antitrust theory, you know, as it’s night follows day. I think they’ll a lot of argue, I I hate, I hate to, you know, give them ideas, but [47:45],  they’ll make these arguments–

BOBBY:  I can, I can assure you that Rob Manfred does not tune in to this podcast.

JIM:  Yeah. I’m sure they’ll probably argue that, you know, that they’ve relied on this exemption from it all these many years. And it would be, it would be unfair to suddenly pull the rug out from under them, blah, blah, blah. It’s kind of bizarre argument, they’ll make it. And of course, they’ll just make the argument that stare decisis should should hold. Go to Congress, they’ll say, just like they did in Flood.

ALEX:  Right, exactly. And and so, you know, in the past the the courts have either upheld that original decision. Or they have said, go to Congress, let’s let you, let’s let them kind of figure this out, right? And that’s what the players and and the owners did in in 98, right? Was they went to go and get this exemption to–

JIM:  Right.

ALEX:  –exemption. And I I guess I’m curious if you, if you see this as fairing any differently, but more importantly, I think there’s, you know, there’s kind of been some broader political discussion about this. It came up in the, in Major League Baseball’s decision to move the All-Star game out of Atlanta. You saw-

JIM:  Right.

ALEX:  –some, some members of Congress kind of bringing this up. So–

BOBBY:  Whether or not they were doing it seriously, or just for likes on Twitter.

JIM:  That’s–

ALEX:  Right.

JIM:  That’s a, whole another question.

ALEX:  Right. Well, so do you think that a case like this maybe puts a little more pressure, like whether it succeeds or not, does it put any pressure on Congress to kind of take this up? Or does it still remain in teams player’s hands to actually bring this to the forefront?

JIM:  Yeah, look, you know, I don’t have to to you you guys know what Congress is like today. More than or perhaps more than anybody. I, I doubt whether or not other than your political machinations as as what happened with regard to the Atlanta situation. I dealt with whether or not and given other issues that confront the country that we we’d have a particularly good chance of getting the exemption eliminated by Congress. Which is why you’d have to go back to the Supreme Court. They created, they created this stupid exemption, they got to get rid of it. It’s–

BOBBY:  Yup.

JIM:  –it really isn’t Congress’s duty to to get rid of something that they did that was stupid.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  See, that’s what’s was so confusing to me about in the past, the court telling whoever was filing to go to Congress, or MLB. Making the claim that you need to go to Congress to get this exemption overturned is because, well Congress passed the antitrust law to begin with, and then the court carved out this specific exemption for MLB. So I don’t understand how it then the onus goes back towards Congress, to say no to the exemption for a law that they originally passed that they wanted to apply to everybody. It just it just seems very confusing to me. But then again, I mean, I’m not like, you know, an expert in sort of the checks and balances the American government in that way.

JIM:  Well, I think it, look, we have we do have a different makeup of the Supreme Court now. And certainly back in 1972, to and clug was decided. And some of the, of the newer members of the court are putting aside politics, they are judges that have a good grasp on the antitrust laws. And the fact that it was Judge Gersh that wrote the majority opinion and went after the antitrust exemption. And then Judge Kavanaugh, essentially supporting that, in his concurring opinion. Tells you that, you know, they’ll treat the antitrust laws, seriously.

BOBBY:  Jim, what’s what’s next for the case? What are the kind of upcoming important dates? And and how quickly do you expect us to move?

JIM:  Well, you know, the right now, we expect them to file a motions to dismiss. Based on the exemption and other things as well, probably in the latter part of February. And we’ll, we’re going to try to get this resolved, at the District Court level, as quickly as possible, get to the Second Circuit as quickly as possible. Because I’m assuming that that’s what will happen. And, you know, I I’m hopeful that we could get all these preliminaries wrapped up by the end of the year and, and be in a position to file a petition with the Supreme Court next year.

ALEX:  Right. I think the the case, as I understand it, is built to kind of fast track through the court systems, right? You don’t name any specific teams, because you don’t want to get tangled up in kind of specific like state to state–

JIM:  Right.

ALEX:  –law. Again, we’re far from legal experts here. But kind of what does that what does that path through the courts look like? Like, what is your I guess, best case scenario in bringing this all the way up to the top is just appealing, appealing, appealing?

JIM:  Depends on how quickly the courts will act, obviously. But I think that if we could, as I as I mentioned, if we could get through the District Court, and this and the Second Circuit, by the end of the year. We’d have a shot at at filing a petition next year, and perhaps getting it heard next year in the Supreme Court. You know, God willing.

BOBBY:  Because we know how quickly those things always tend to move here. Jim, I wanted to give you a chance to Is there anything else about this case that you kind of want to discuss? You know, knowing that we are a podcast that like Alex said, discusses minor, the minor leagues a lot in the state of Minor League Baseball, and the health of it, and the communities that support it, and the players? Is there anything else about this case that you kind of want, you think we should know? Or you think our listeners should know?

JIM:  Well, you know, on a broader level, and it’s not so much of a legal issue, it is a you know, almost a moral issue yet. Eliminating 42 teams in small towns all over America. It doesn’t seem like the smartest thing to do. And, I mean, not all the teams are completely eliminated. They were, you know, they’re in independent leagues and so forth. And then some of them are in college leagues but it’s certainly not they’re not affiliate once once you’re not affiliated with a Major League team, you lose a lot of you choose. It’s then it becomes something you know, a little bit above the level of of a [54:41]. And the fact that the Major League Baseball could cavalierly simply say, okay, we’re just going to wipe out 42 teams and 42 little towns all over America is kind of amazing, actually.

ALEX:  Yeah, we talk a lot on the show about, you know, responsibility like what the responsibility is of teams to their communities. I look at a state like, like West Virginia, which I think is, you know, I I mean, I don’t know that they’re a part of your case, but they lost three.

JIM:  Yeah.

ALEX:  I believe they lost all of their Minor League teams, right? This is a a state that had like three or four minor league teams. Now that community doesn’t have any and it really strikes me as somewhat short sighted, and and certainly not in the best interest of the health of the game or, or, you know, cultivation of love for the game to–

JIM:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –do this, this sort of thing. It’s a very cavalier [55:37]–

JIM:  [55:37] what were they thinking? I mean, you get it, they they eliminated the whole New York-Penn League, which, which–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

JIM:  –mostly in little towns in upstate New York and Eastern Pennsylvania is one you know, one of our places in Connecticut but that whole area, small towns love Baseball. Don’t have it anymore.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yeah, I mean in, in it alliance. It’s like, it’s it’s this idea that Manfred this, but for sort of this idea of One Baseball, but who is that One Baseball really serving? Is it serving all baseball fans? Or is the One Baseball really only serving Major League Baseball. Which again, kind of cycles back to this idea of them being antitrust exempt. They can make that decision for themselves rather than everybody getting to have a say in that decision. Whether it’s from a legal perspective, or kind of like you said, Jim, more like a, a moral or a community or a sport building perspective.

JIM:  Well, you know, if you’re billionaires, you get to do what you want.

ALEX:  That is that is the tagline of this show. Jim, thank you so much for being so generous with your time.

JIM:  Absolutely. [56:40] pleasure.

ALEX:  We really appreciate you coming on.

JIM:  Enjoy and take care. Bye bye.

[56:43]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Thank you, everybody, for listening. Thank you to Jim Quinn, for like you mentioned in our intro, Alex. Actually speaking in an intelligent way about stuff that basically amounts to business law and sports law. As opposed to just yelling about it like we do week in and week out. Hope that that was informative for everybody. We’ll be back on Monday. In the meantime, thank you for listening. And I know that we release this episode, midweek, which we don’t typically do. So if you’re, if you’re listening to this right now. And you haven’t gotten a chance to go backwards a couple of days and check out our pod with Emma Baccellieri about the formation and the downfall of the Players’ League in 1890. A co-op style baseball league. You’ll want to go check that one out. If only to find out what it means to be a baseball list.

ALEX:  Is this where I can get my takes off about how fucking stupid the Hall of Fame is? Oh my god, I’m sick of the discourse. I know. Like, almost–

BOBBY:  You didn’t, wait, you didn’t get all of your your tapes done in the 30-minute soliloquy that I let you have at the at the top of this two-hour podcast?

ALEX:  God damn it. Did you seriously, you?

BOBBY:  I ran that, yeah.

ALEX:  Hmm. And that’s unfortunate. This is–

BOBBY:  Nice knowing you. I have fun retiring to a bunker.

ALEX:  No one needs takes about Curt Schilling. I just, we’re we’re at the point where it’s such a complete joke. And everyone in the sport knows it’s a it’s a complete joke. Even though some of the writers, right? Are like opting out of voting. And I’m like when your voting body is opting not to vote that maybe tells you that it’s time to kind of re-examine some things.

BOBBY:  We’re at the state of the Hall of Fame that you know fire departments get when they’re like you have to just let the building come all the way down. Like there’s no sense in trying to put the fire out anymore. It’s just let it fall safely.

ALEX:  Ohhh, we’re not far off from that. From that fire spread into Major League Baseball either. So–

BOBBY:  Some might argue that it’s already happening. Thanks, everybody for listening. We will be back on Monday.

[58:56]

[Music]

[59:04]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

BOBBY:  But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley. Oh, fuck!

BOBBY:  What? You [59:23]–

ALEX:  [59:23]

BOBBY:  –I didn’t start recording?

ALEX:  I never started recording. I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches. A podcast that Alex Bazeley records his half of.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodFebruary 10, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB antritrust lawsuit, MLB CBA, Rob Manfred, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on A League Built on Trust (feat. Jim Quinn)	
Long Live the Players’ League (feat. Emma Baccellieri)

Alex and Bobby wade into the discourse about whose fault a potential delay to the season would be, and whether or not fans have any right to to feel entitled to the 2022 season starting on time. Then, they’re joined by Emma Baccellieri of Sports Illustrated to discuss her piece on The Players’ League, an 1890 National League spinoff that was run like a co-op amongst professional baseball players. 

Read Emma’s Players’ League story here

Songs featured in this episode:

Gary U.S. Bonds — “New Orleans” • Hank Williams, Drifting Cowboys — “Take These Chains From My Heart” • Booker T & the M.G.’s — “Green Onions”
Episode Transcript

[INTRO MUSIC]

Tell us a little bit about what you saw and, and and being able to relay that message to Cora when you watch Kimbrel pitching and kind of help out so he wasn’t Tipping his Pitches. So Tipping Pitches, we hear about it all the time. People at home understand, what Tipping Pitches it’s all about. It’s amazing. That’s remarkable.

BOBBY:  Alex, as we sit here to record this, 49 days have passed since the MLB lockout began. I think I’m doing that math, right? 31 days in December, we’re recording this on January 18th. It’s gotta be 49, 30 days–

ALEX:  Can’t come up.

BOBBY:  –half September. That’s not what, no, no, you could keep doing that. How did you remember how many days were in each month? Were you just kind of like, you remembered it, or did you have to do the knuckles thing? Or did you have to say that whole phrase every time–

ALEX:  It was that whole phrase every time. I still do that today, 30, 30 days in September, April, June, November 31.

BOBBY:  Can you just remember how many days there are. As someone who has of–

ALEX:  You know I don’t have enough space in my brain to remember whether–

BOBBY:  Okay.

ALEX:  –it’s 30 was 31 days.

BOBBY:  But as someone who has a 31st day birthday, I’ve always felt a certain affinity for 31-day months. So I always remember which ones there are, you know, like, people don’t know that my birthday is a day. Because the 31st day of a month that they always–

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –assume has 30 days.

ALEX:  It is.

BOBBY:  It’s a whole joke in parks and recreation about how April schedules all of Ron’s meetings on March 31st. Because she thought it was a fake day, and he wouldn’t have to actually do the meetings.

ALEX:  Yeah, I mean, as someone as a, as a day 5, 5th–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –5th day–

BOBBY:  Your your birthday–

ALEX:  –birthday-

BOBBY:  –privileges showing.

ALEX:  It it really is, so I’m sorry. I will I will, notes notes apology to come shortly. I’ll spend some time thinking and reflecting again, and back to everyone.

BOBBY:  Yes, exactly. Please tweet us from the Tipping Pitches account with no context. Anyway. 49 days have passed. And I received an email in my inbox this morning from mlb.com Insider. You know, some sign up for these things because I buy tickets, sometimes I have an MLB At Bat account all these and get these promotional emails and today’s promotional email said, “The candy NFT marketplace is now open.” No other explanation, it just says, “Candy marketplace, open now”. It’s an, it’s an image with a hyperlink on it. Now you imagine you’re the average MLB fan. You’re 63 or whatever age the average fan is now and you just receive an email that says, “The candy NFT marketplace is now open”. Like that’s, that’s borderline elder abuse to send that email to your whole LISTSERV.

ALEX:  Right. They did know what that is [2:50]–

BOBBY:  –[2:50] I don’t even know what that is.

ALEX:  Wow, Cracker Jack is really making some changes to their product. Like, what?

BOBBY:  I think that it’s just that, that’s just what they named the marketplace, Candy, Candy marketplace. It doesn’t really make any sense to me. But I mean, this is Baseball without players for 49 days. So what’s going to happen another 49 days? Pick what, what are they going to start emailing about? Like, hello, I need money to get my family back to the United States from mlb.com/insider.

ALEX:  Exactly.

BOBBY:  I can pay you back threefold.

ALEX:  I am a, I am a wealthy foreign national who can make you very rich. If you can simply wire me $1 million right now.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly. Please don’t ask any questions. Alex, we have a great episode in store. For our listeners. We’re going to talk to Emma Baccellieri, writer at Sports Illustrated, former guests of Tipping Pitches about her article for Sports Illustrated about the Players’ League. Which was a break-off league from the National League in 1890. We’re going to talk a little bit up top about the discourse, the CBA discourse. And then I have a very important burning question for you. But before we do all of that, I am Bobby Wagner.

ALEX:  I am Alex Bazeley.

BOBBY:  And you are listening to Tipping Pitches.

[4:13]

[Music Theme]

BOBBY:  Alex, last week, we drafted the least terrible Owners in Major League Baseball. Thank you to Jake Mintz, and Jordan Shusterman. for participating in that exercise. I still feel pretty good about our team. I put out a poll on Spotify, which is a feature that you can do on that app. To see whether our listeners thought that we won or Jake and Jordan won. Now obviously this is a, this is a partisan poll, because we’re posting it’s our podcast taking how you will. But we got 58, 58% of the vote at time of recording. That’s pretty good. That’s that’s a good margin, that’s a landslide victory, electorally.

ALEX:  Well, I just went in and gave us a vote. So we’re at 59% now.

BOBBY:  Oh my God, that’s rigged. You’re rigging the election. Are you allowed to do that?

ALEX:  We all get one vote, stop the count.

BOBBY:  Stop the count right now. And that got me thinking, I earnestly want to ask you this question. And I don’t want you to answer it as if you’re Alex Bazeley. I don’t want you to answer it as a co host of Tipping Pitches. I want you to answer is as if you are–

ALEX:  [5:24] really hard, I have some bad news for you.

BOBBY:  The both you are those things. I want you to answer as if you’re like an alien come down to earth. And you just get to observe this financial system of Baseball. What do Owners add? Because I got to thinking last week after we did all that research on Owners, and what they do and how they got their money, and, and I just kept coming back to the fact that like, none of it really changes how any of the teams operate. Like none of their wealth, none of how they made their money, none of their personalities, none of that stuff really changes anything. So earnestly, I want to ask you, as someone who has to exist in a baseball landscape, where, where everybody is like, yes, Owners are a necessary evil, why? If you were to be as charitable as possible to the billionaires that run the sport.

ALEX:  Because ultimately, the sport needs capital? And I mean, perhaps a a little bit cynically, wherever there is labor, there is someone there who is going to exploit that or try and extract that labor. But even even from a less leftist perspective, baseball teams, Baseball is an enterprise it’s incredibly costly. And so there, I suppose there has to be someone in there who’s willing to foot the bill. Now, nowhere does it say it has to be one person who’s worth $5 billion, who owns the, who owns the whole team who has to underwrite all the operations. I think there are different models for it, but the only thing I can think of truly is someone has to pay the players, someone has to pay the concessions workers, someone has to buy the hotdogs and and, you know, do deals, right? Someone’s got to do deals ultimately, at the end of the day.

BOBBY:  Oh, man.

ALEX:  Am, am I wrong?

BOBBY:  I really enjoyed watching you squirm while trying to answer that question. So so then the implication then is that, Owners are the liaison between, like banks and baseball, then right. Because the Owners are not ponying up their own personal cash to buy these teams, with the exception of maybe Steve Cohen, who we talked about last week, put it on his AMEX. But like most Owners are not moving money from one fund to another, from one account to another account to buy these teams by taking out a loan. So the capital in late capitalism is typically coming from like, Wall Street, financial hedge funds, banks, that kind of thing. It’s all kind of centralized in a way. I guess, I’m just curious, because the reason that I asked this question is, we’re going to talk to Emma later in this episode. And it actually kind of was like you’re describing back in the day, you know, and it’s not really like that anymore. So so–

ALEX:  With with regards to–

BOBBY:  –what you’re, what you’re describing, so what you’re describing, then, is that the implication is that, these banks only give these loans. Because they trust the billionaire at the helm of the organization, then, so I have that straight. Like they wouldn’t just give it to, they wouldn’t give a $4 billion loan to Bazeley-Wagner Productions LLC to buy the Mets. Even though if we bought the Mets and just left everything unchanged. It’s not like the organization would go under.

ALEX:  Right.

BOBBY:  Right?

ALEX:  Right. Yeah, I mean, I think there’s something to be said for keeping wealth in the hands of the wealthy.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

ALEX:  And recognizing that, you know, overall, there is a small circle of people who would really be considered to own a baseball team. And that has to do with the money that they inherited, or the the business that their great grandpa founded in 1790. Or the connections that they’ve made today. How many degrees removed they are from Jeffrey Epstein. Like all these things, factor in, right? But but they are the people who bank Executives are are rubbing shoulders with. Who Rob Manfred is running shoulders with, who the other Owners are rubbing shoulders with, right? Because you need everyone on the same page. You can’t have someone like us to come in and say–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  –fuck it! Throw caution to the wind.

BOBBY:  All I’m trying to say is I got a pretty good credit score, man. Why can’t I get a $4 billion loan to buy the Mets?

ALEX:  That’s so true. I’m maybe–

BOBBY:  [10:10]

ALEX:  –the one that drags you down.

BOBBY:  Well, we’re doing it with the LLC so that [10:16]–

ALEX:  Do we got [10:16]–

BOBBY:  –that we paid off our debts. Okay, enough of that, I I was just curious, you know, little check in on the state of baseball ownership, seven days after last week’s episode as we we drafted the least terrible amongst them. One more thing that I wanted to get to, before we bring in Emma. I wanted to, I I wanted to just kind of talk a little bit about the state of discourse around the CBA. And we do this often we check in, but it’s been a little bit, it’s it’s been a little while since we talked about like a proposal back and forth, in a serious way. And the wider media’s reaction to it. And I wanted to talk to you about this, because, you know, there was some consternation on Twitter early last week, as we’re recording this, it was just one day ago. But as you’re listening to this a week ago. About who’s really at fault in these labor negotiations, and what each side can really do. And I think that, you know, something that I’ve been thinking a lot about, since we talked to Adam Johnson. Aside from like, the opening of the show was kind of relevant to what we talked about with Adam Johnson to where he was like, why do Owners exist? You could put two Deloitte Executives in a trench coat or two McKinsey Executives at a trench coat. And they would basically do the same thing that Owners do. But thinking about media literacy, as it comes to collective bargaining and how most of the people talking about this, don’t have experience with collective bargaining. Have never been meaningfully taught what it means to negotiate a collective bargaining agreement. And because of that, it just opens up a lot of windows for the wrong kind of fan discourse around it. Where it’s like, if one person shares one lazy take to a lot of followers, then it just like, it adds fuel to the fire of the people who already are ready, chomping at the bit to be like, oh, this is ruining my Baseball experience. Do you know what I mean? Like the baseball fans who are like, I wish I didn’t have to be inconvenienced by this. Are then given carte blanche to be like this is inconveniencing me. Because they don’t really understand how the process is working. And they don’t understand that as fans as consumers, they’re not entitled to the labor negotiation. For whatever reason, in this country, we know we’re not entitled to the labor negotiation to be on the Owner side. Like nobody would ever be like, I think Walmart should propose this to their workers. But a lot of people feel–

ALEX:  You would be surprised.

BOBBY:  No, I mean, no one would be like, for the most part, no one would be like, Walmart is wrong for proposing X to its employees.

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  But a lot of people feel, feel really free to be like, the workers should accept X. And the same dynamic plays out in the labor negotiations. Where it’s like, actually, it’s on the players to solve this problem, because we’ve already accepted and we’re ambivalent about the fact that the Owners are just gonna, like, do whatever they do, because they’re like shadowy billionaires.

ALEX:  Yeah. Well, I mean, I think it’s, you know, there are a couple things at play there, right? One is just the general decline in labor power in this country over the last like, half century. And and, you know, the fact that sports leagues have kind of remained a sort of bastion of labor struggle, in a sense, right. We’ve had a, you know, there has been, quote, unquote, “labor peace” for 25 years in Major League Baseball, but that’s, obviously has not been the case. There have been, there’s been many public fight. And that has existed and leagues elsewhere, too. So like, and that leads into the second point, which is that the athletes are the visible ones, right? They’re the ones who are out there on the field. And so it’s very easy to point to them and say, well, why are they in the back room, trying to hammer out a deal or potentially delay a season, when they should just get their act together and play. And really it like, it reveals just kind of a general lack of critical thinking skills.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  You know, like, you–

BOBBY:  Yes.

ALEX:  –really only have to put yourself in the player shoes for two seconds to really understand what’s going on.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  But I I think, I think a broader, like you said, kind of illiteracy, lack of holistic understanding of what happens in the labor negotiation has led to this moment where we are right now. Where it’s very easy to just point at both sides, or point at the players at all, and say that this is on them, to get it together.

BOBBY:  I just think that the capital side has had like, literally centuries to craft their arguments. against labor, and that do it effectively. And in the last 50 years, they’ve done an even better job of that, like, it’s been accelerated as, as you outlined, like labor is in a pretty bad spot in this country compared to where it was in the early 1900s, in the late 1800s. And so often, when fans are talking about like this consumer first division, they don’t even realize that they’re kind of union busting. Like they’re kind of undermining the the solidarity of the, the union that they’re talking about. And I don’t know, I I just find it very frustrating. And this is why like, when we were doing the CBA ABCs. One of the questions or, or even, or even when we’re talking about the state of labor in Baseball with Baumann like, and the question of what would you give up? Was brought up. I think a listener asked us this question. What would you feel comfortable giving up? I was like reticent to even answer that question. Because, you know, it’s not a good thing to do, like really opine about what a union should do, if you’re not in the union. Because you don’t understand the dynamics at the table, you don’t understand the different factors affecting each individual member, that sort of galvanized to affect the whole unit collectively. You don’t understand how militant different members are feeling at different times. You don’t understand how happy they are with their current conditions versus what they think that they can get at the table in this negotiation versus the next negotiation. Like there are so many things about union strategy that you should just not opine on. And I know that we opine on it from time to time. But that’s because we’ve spent so much time on this podcast, like trying to enact a vision of the sport that we love, that is actually like pro player, and in a roundabout way can come around and make Baseball a community that’s like a welcoming to all types of fans as well. And we balance those things. But like when you don’t do that, I don’t think that you should just be hopping on Twitter and sharing takes out what the union should be doing. Like they should be bargaining against themselves, which is stupid. Or they should be rolling over to the owners, which is unnecessary at this point. And not their obligation as a union.

ALEX:  Yeah, definitely. I mean, this also dovetails with, like, you can’t divorce this conversation from the one we have about the product that’s being put on the field right now, you know. And there are plenty of decent enough faith, arguments about various aspects of the game today in 2022, right? About competition, about pace of play, about how we are watching the game evolve in front of our eyes, and whether or not we like the direction that it’s going in. And the players are making the same considerations as well. Like they are not there as well aware of the deepening divide in competitive teams as you are. Which is why it doesn’t make a ton of sense to out of one side of your mouth say, well, something has to be done about the competition in this league, and half the teams being noncompetitive. And then the other side of your mouth saying, I’ve got why, why the players and Owners can’t come to an agreement.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  Like that’s those statements are fundamentally at odds with each other.

BOBBY:  Yes. Thank you for distilling that. Thank you. Because I just don’t fans are not entitled to this negotiation. There’s not and I know, that’s a hard pill for some fans to swallow, because they just feel like baseball should exist as this public institution. But guess what it doesn’t, we gave that up when we let Owners buy the teams. Like that is what we gave up. Seriously like that, like if Baseball is not municipally owned, then we don’t actually have a say in the fundamental economic structure. Like you, you can stop buying tickets if you want. And you can completely boycott it. But at that point, who are you serving? You’re you’re not really even sure what that is for. There is no political compass here to your frustration over not agreeing on a CBA. I don’t know, it’s, there are some problems that just can’t be solved in the wider baseball landscape through collective bargaining. And one of those things is how the sport generally treats its fans. Like that, that’s on the league, that’s on the Owners. The players are not like refusing to engage with fans. Like if anything, they’re going out of their way to try to make the sport better for fans.

ALEX:  I mean, I ultimately, I think where I come down on is I think it’s more than okay, and frankly admirable to admit that you don’t necessarily know everything about the dynamics that are going on at the table right now. I certainly don’t, I don’t think you do either. Like you were just saying none of us really do. And that’s fine. And and frankly, we’re all learning. That’s why we did a three-part series on key elements that are being negotiated over right now, right? Because they are very thorny, and they’re tough to wade through and it’s it’s hard to tell what’s at stake for either side. It it’s okay to to want to learn more about these things.

BOBBY:  Without you don’t your hands up.

ALEX:  You don’t have to just tweet through it. Yeah.

BOBBY:  Yes, I agree. And last thing I’ll say on this, and then we can bring Emma in is that, if you have a problem with how labor negotiations unfold, you don’t actually have a problem with unions, or how either side is handling anything. You just have a problem with capitalism. Like, capitalism is the reason that in the United States, we have labor unions and labor law and collective bargaining. Like that is, this is the only thing that governs other than labor laws, which are pretty minimal. I don’t know if you’ve heard about the whole fight for 15, that’s been going on for 15 years, and now actually should be like a fight for 25. But collective bargaining is kind of like the only avenue that these things can actually play out in. So if you want it to not play out like this, you also have to not want capitalism to exist. So people can kind of get over that tough.

ALEX:  Tough pill to swallow among us.

BOBBY:  All right, let’s bring in Emma. Like I said, at the top, she wrote an article titled, Solidarity and Betrayal: The Rise and Fall of the Players’ League. This is for Sports Illustrated, well, the link will be in the description. But essentially, it was about an 1889, a majority of the players in the National League, which was the main professional sports, baseball league, at the time, outside of the Negro Leagues, baseball was still segregated. A majority of those players left to form their own league. Which was at the time seen as radical, it seems even more radical now compared to where we’re at. And Emma wrote about the history of that, what went wrong, why it only lasted a year, and the challenges that the players were facing that kind of pushed them over the hump to want to even do something radical like this. So we wanted to talk to her about it, because obviously, it touches on a lot of interests that we have here on the show.

ALEX:  Yeah, it is as relevant as ever, many of these issues persist today. And it was an example of players recognizing the power of their labor, right? This is, this is one of the catalysts for this is the introduction of the reserve clause, which is passed in secrecy, just a couple years prior. And that, among other things, like a, like effectively a salary cap, and a tiered system of paying players. Basically galvanized a majority of the game stars to get together and say, hey, maybe there’s a better way.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  And they went out on their own. And, it’s a fascinating history lesson, to say the least even if its success at the time was minimal. It, it disbanded after a year.

BOBBY:  It was a real fucked around and found-out moment for those Owners at the time.

ALEX:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  That they overstep their boundaries. But I don’t want to spoil too much of the conversation because Emma details it very well. And it’s a great conversation. So let’s get to that conversation with Emma Baccellieri of Sports Illustrated.

[22:54]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, we are once again joined by Emma Baccellieri, writer at Sports Illustrated, now two-time Tipping Pitches guest. Hi, Emma, how are you?

EMMA:  I’m good. How are you guys?

BOBBY:  Doing okay. You wrote an article that set off the Tipping Pitches radar. It has solidarity is the first word of the headline, Solidarity and Betrayal: The Rise and Fall of the Players’ League and article for Sports Illustrated, which of course is in the link. The link is in the description of this podcast, if you have not read it and you’re listening at this point. It’s about the formation of the players league in the 1880s. And we wanted to talk to you about that, because it obviously comes at a time when a lot of people are talking about labor and solidarity and what it looks like to kind of divest from ownership or imagine a world without ownership. But first and foremost, I wanted to ask, what was the implication, like what got you thinking about the Players’ League is not something that we’re really always talking about in the context of modern labor landscape. Because so much has changed about the game and finance since then. So what really set off your radar for this story?

EMMA:  Yeah, so the Players’ League, which was 1890s so yeah, far before anything with modern baseball was on the radar. Was something that I learned about a couple years ago, actually, I think when I was looking at baseball reference and saw this league pop up with really old players and and names and I clicked on it and was like, this is really interesting. I can’t believe I’ve never heard this before. And, like, went down the Wikipedia rabbit hole, two in the morning and was like, oh my God, this is the coolest thing ever. A player led league like someone should write a book about this. And and then I looked it up and someone had written a book on it and I ordered the book and then kind of just forgot about it for a long time. And then this winter is kind of a perfect time to come back to it where it’s like, oh, like not only should you read that book, you should maybe read something about this yourself with this moment for just big questions about labor and about just envisioning what baseball can be. And what that relationship between players and owners looks like and has looked like in public like in the future. Like this was a seemed like kind of a perfect time to go back to it. So uhm, yeah, the book called the guy who wrote the book, who’s a professor at Point Park University. His name is Robert Ross, very good book, I recommend it and kind of just went from there.

ALEX:  I imagine it’s a little harrowing. writing an article about anything that really happens pre internet, but like 1880-1890, as you said, That’s, especially for a topic that has, I think, relatively limited scholarship on it, right? As you mentioned, there’s a there’s a book or two about it. There’s a Wikipedia page, but by and large, I think it’s kind of–

BOBBY:  John Thorn’s email address.

ALEX:  Right. Exactly. But the walking Encyclopedia of Baseball. But, you know, by and large, I think it’s kind of something that, as you know, I think Bobby and I can attest to his escape to the minds of many modern baseball fans. So kind of what was this process of researching it like? And was there anything that kind of struck you as you were digging through it as you were digging through the dynamics of the the kind of player ownership battle? Anything that stuck out is particularly relevant today?

EMMA:  Yeah, I mean, as you said, it is very hard to research. So two big things you said John Thorn’s email address, MLB’s Official Historian, for those who don’t know, who is a tremendous resource about literally anything. it’s crazy to me what he can bring up off the top of his head. And then the the one book that has been written about this, those were both like, phenomenal resources that I don’t think I could have written much about this [26:59]. And apart from that, you know, some digging in newspaper archives, although that was totally bodied and hard to figure out some things at the Hall of Fame. But really, a lot of it was John Thorn pointing me in the right direction. And then what was put together for the book that Rob Ross wrote. But I think the biggest thing that stood out to me in all of this was just how timeless a lot of these dynamics aren’t. And obviously, that’s not just Baseball, like I mean, timeless as a larger labor dynamics between workers and management. But it it really is remarkable to me how much of this when you’re looking at the moment that players decided to break away that the system or baseball they felt wasn’t tenable. In in terms of how owners or anything, they felt the owners didn’t care about the long term welfare of Baseball. They felt that, you know, they were being treated fundamentally unfairly, and that ownership was greedy. A lot of these statements certainly felt like they could have been made at any point until the reserve clause was eliminated after a Curt Flood. So that’s anytime for the next, you know, 70, 80 years. But a lot of the bigger, less specific things could be said right now. And that’s just really, really striking to me. How much of this is, you know, if not the same minute details, like this a minute sentiment and and just really how much of this has stayed the same for over 100 years.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

ALEX:  There was that, there was a quote that really stood out to me, right. It’s it’s it goes there was a time where the league stood for integrity and fair dealing. Today, it stands for dollars and cents, once it looked to the elevation of the game and an onyx ex–exhibition of the sport. Today, its eyes are upon the turnstile. Where–

BOBBY:  Are you’re not reading the transcript of when Collin McHugh came on this podcast a year and a half ago.

ALEX:  Right, was was that John Montgomery Ward in 1890, or the MLBPA last week? I don’t know.

EMMA:  Right. There’s literally I think it was Evan Longoria that had an Instagram post that is like, almost word for word, the modern tweets of guy from 2020. The conversation about starting back up. but yeah, it’s crazy. Like that’s exactly what it is today.

BOBBY:  I mean, I think it’s kind of humbling to see how little has changed. It’s like you could kind of read it one of two ways. Like it’s either humbling and like, you know, we know what the fight is going to be, right? Or it’s like kind of kind of like dark, because the, the more things change, the more they stay the same there are always these sort of existential threats facing baseball from you know, that financial system and how it’s chosen to run itself. If you can take us back a little bit through, through the how the Players’ League started and and for those listening who might not have read the article yet. What was sort of like the, the catalyst like the push that was like the players are? Have made the decision that they really think that this is their best course of action. Like how, how did they get so bad? Because I think for the modern listener, like for the modern baseball fan, they can’t imagine baseball players ever trying something like this. Because you know they are so much better compensated, even relative to the rest of society, then players were back in the 1880s and 90s.

EMMA:  Yeah, it’s so like, while we’re talking about how timeless the sentiment is, the the details of what led them were very specific to the time. Very much had to deal with the fact that a players weren’t paid that much had pretty much no protections at all around being cut, around being treated. Which at the time was just referred to as being sold. Which, you know, had a very, like particular cultural-historical context that players really didn’t like. Just general working conditions, like you had to pay for your own uniform, and you had to launder your own uniform. You had to do like just all sorts of stuff around traveling, like there were no perks, no benefits. Like, really was kind of crummy working conditions. So players really dislike all of that. And and the big one was, this was actually shortly after the reserve clause had been installed. And that was something that players actually were initially kind of receptive to. Because there were no multi-year contracts originally, so players were very much living this like, year to year existence. Where it’s like, I have no idea where I’m going to be signed. I have no idea when I’m going to be paid next year. And so the idea of, okay, I’m with this team, I can like have my family in this city. I have an idea that I’ll be paid the same next year as this year, even if it’s not much money. And I’m still like working a regular job in the offseason. That was a guarantee of security that players actually liked. But shockingly, it only took about like, 5 to 10 years for that to turn really terrible for players. And there was a pause, drove salaries down, you know, players really were not happy with it. They were even the security they thought they were getting from it of like, okay, I’m with this one team. This is where I live, this is where I work. Even that was falling apart as Owners started to do more with selling contracts and players being forced to move and be traded. And so it was kind of an interesting point where it players remember the time from before there was a clause where like, yes, things sucked. But they sucked in a different way. And that kind of emboldened them to realize like, okay, like, our working conditions sucked before there was a problem. They now stuck with the reserve clause, why don’t we just, instead of just trying to abolish the clause, let’s just break off and start our own league and start our own, basically, kind of a co-op model, even though they didn’t have to bring in outside investors.

ALEX:  It’s, it’s kind of interesting to imagine what that sort of league could have looked like if it existed beyond, you know, a year? Simply because it’s so drastically different from any type of sport that exists today, right? I mean, it’s sports are so unique in the way that they are, like, set up that I mean, it’s, it’s hard to think about, like, what it would look like if the sports model applied to say, my job, right? If I had to spend six years working my way up, you know, in the nonprofit world to finally get that first payday that’s, you know, still at the lowest rung. And this was this radically different vision of actually bringing the players into the process. Can you talk a little bit about what ultimately was its downfall and why it failed? And kind of why in the years following the the National League and kind of the owners that that ran professional baseball, kind of started to solidify their grip on the the sport as a whole?

EMMA:  Yeah, it really is a shame that it fell apart after just one year. Because, like you said, it’s such an interesting model, it was so radical. And I think it’s probably one of the most interesting what ifs, you have from really all the Baseball history. Like what if the model that we had for professional sports in this country, was instead one of like, players not only having a a say in the way that the game was run. But a share of the profits, a model where like, the players are the ones driving it. Like, I mean, that would have had all sorts of interesting implications for not just sports, but labor as a whole in America, I think.

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

EMMA:  And so it’s kind of a bummer that we didn’t get to see more of it. Because it it really, even though it had I think it’s such an interesting idea, it had incredible solidarity. Like the vast majority of of players as a whole, but really the vast majority of talented players. Most of the players who would go on to become Hall of Famers from that time, were all with the Players’ League. No one wanted to stay with the National League, even though they were offering higher salaries and doing everything they could to try to keep players from jumping. Like they so many of them really believed in this ideal and really stuck together and had a chance to make it something great, I think. But you know what, ultimately, doomed it was the fact that they did have to bring in these outside investors. Because they had no money themselves, because they’d been paid so poorly before.

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  And these outside investors wanted a return on their investment, which is really hard to do and just to one season, and the nationally executives were very shrewd businessmen. Most notably, Spalding, Spalding Sporting Goods, based in Cincinnati, incredibly perceptive about what what was going on here. And realize, like, these leagues are ripping each other apart. Like there’s not space for two baseball teams that are operating entirely off of, you know, gate receipts for their revenue to compete head to head and be able to survive, there can only be one. And if I want that one to be the National League, the easiest way is to sow division with these investors for the Players’ League, to get them to kind of be nervous about the lack of return that they’ve had so far. And just to get them to all kind of bow out and, you know, just collapse on the investor side, despite the solidarity of the players and get them to all turn around. Which really sucks, I think it would have been really interesting to see it continue. And I I think they had, they they were more successful on the National League in the one like that, the one year that they existed, in a lot of ways. Drew more fans, had better players. I think that if they had gone head to head for just one more year, I think it might have been the players like that one out. Even if it would ultimately have lasted much longer beyond that. Like I’m sure something like the Natio–the American League, excuse me, probably would have propped up anyway as it as it ended up doing a couple–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  –years later. But yeah, it’s just fascinating that it, and it also feels like a pretty damning, bigger statement about like the presence of capitalists and investors in any sort of, you know, collectively minded social cause like this. But yeah, the investors brought them down and that was it.

BOBBY:  Yeah, that’s I was just getting ready to say, capitalists and investors are all about competition amongst each other. Until that competition starts to threaten the entire industry or like threats. Until that competition starts to like, swing the balance of power. Like in the actual workers, in this case, the players favor, and then they start to kind of line up and be like, no, actually, we’re on the same team. Because, you know, they’re all pulling from the same pools of money in the same industry, as I imagine. So so that’s kind of what went wrong, what what went wrong, right? Like is that these outside investors, they wanted a demand. But I’m wondering like, they wanted, they demanded a return on their investment too quickly. And you can say maybe that was because that’s like, full, you know, that’s foolish, or wrongheaded at the time, they should have like, waited it out. And it could have been a much more lucrative thing for them. But I’m wondering if you imagine that if it could work now? Like, given that there are so many different avenues for capital to come in and like invest in a new like startup idea. Do you think that it has a better or a worse chance of succeeding now? Because on one hand, like, yeah, there is more capital coming in from different places into the sports industry. And we understand it better as a way that it can make more money with like TV rights, and how much technology has changed. But on the other hand, there is like, seemingly less of a collective vision of what player power looks like now. Like, I I feel like players have sort of, players like more collectively think they could actually replace me. Because there are more players being developed across the country than there ever were. So there’s kind of like the two competing ideas, like one you might say, could be easier now. But in another word, in another respect, it kind of seems impossible now.

EMMA:  Yeah, I would love to say that I think it would be more feasible now. I think I’m on the side of it being more impossible. Partially because what it means to run a league is so different now. Like as a a a global enterprise that is about like selling a vision of Baseball, and everything that entails not just a group of eight teams who play Baseball?

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  And want people to show up and see them. But yeah, it it is really interesting, because in in some senses, I think, you know, players have a, like a much more direct connection to fans with social media with the way that like personal brands exist. And I think that’s interesting for what it means for someone to want to support the players and the idea of players coming together and forming something on their own. And the idea of Baseball being the players not being the league, if that makes sense. I think that’s very powerful, and in some ways, much more powerful now than it was then. But at the same time, the question of how you harness that power and what it means to like, assemble a a league with that. Where you have like a fair democratic process for players and you have some sort of external way for investors to be satisfied without being unnecessarily extractive seems just kind of, unfortunately, probably destined to fail, although maybe I’m being too pessimistic there.

BOBBY:  Well, it’s also worth noting that this players leak happened before the antitrust exemption was a thing, too. So there are all kinds–

EMMA:  Yeah.

BOBBY:  –of different legal challenges that like the league would have in its arsenal now that it didn’t have sort of like structurally built-in at the time. Like MLB is much more entrenched, entrenched institution than just like the National League was back in the 1880s. It’s gone through this evolution, it’s thought of all of the different Players’ League problem. Like Players’ League level problems that could kind of crop up and it knows what to do, it has an action plan for all of this.

EMMA:  The legal challenges alone, you’re right. The, the for this to actually happen would require a very different world than the specific one we’re living in right now. Because you’re right, although the antitrust exemption hasn’t been like, meaningfully challenged, been challenged in court and a while and it would be incredibly interesting if something like this was what provided–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  –that challenge, but–

ALEX:  Uh-hmm.

EMMA:  –probably not going to happen.

ALEX:  I mean, in [41:11]–

BOBBY:  If there are any players listening, if any top 50 MLB players are listening, Tipping Pitches in [41:15] you being the one to challenge it in this way.

ALEX:  Well, this is–

EMMA:  Yeah, please take it to the Supreme Court.

ALEX:  I would, I would love to see Collin McHugh and Shawn do little in in three piece suits in front of the in front of the Supreme Court making the case for this. I mean, in you know, in 1994, there was kind of a a more modern example of this with the United Baseball League, right? Which was going to be commissioned by one Curt Flood to, may may have heard of them? May have heard of them listeners of this podcast? And it never got off the ground, because I think as you were alluding to, I’m a Baseball or Major League Baseball, the organization had just grown too massive for there to be any real, reasonable competition facing it, right? I mean, at at that point, you know, the the United Baseball League was like trying to negotiate a deal with what would become Fox Sports, which had no interest in kind of a fledgling little league off on the side., right? So, but why is it do you think that in this kind of span and the 100 years, I guess that follow? I mean, the reserve clause itself is not it doesn’t end up being toppled until 1972, right? I mean, some 80 plus years after this Players’ League. After the players have recognized that the reserve clause is an inhibiting factor to their livelihood, right? So what do you think it is about this specific moment in 1890, that precludes players from maybe trying to go after something like the reserve clause? Or or they’re broader, more likelihood in any sort of meaningful fashion for decades to come?

EMMA:  Yeah, it’s a, a really good question. And I think there are a couple of things that lined up. I think, in the immediate aftermath of the Players’ League. One thing was just how hard they were struck down. Which was that, you know, they had this big, ambitious scheme. And a year later, not only had it collapsed, because their investors sold them out. But teams then took all the players that had been in the National League in 1889, before the players league in 1881, they were right back under the same reserve clause. They went back to their original teams, most of them their salary then went down as a way of kind of like punishment. Which is like, not only just a really terrible working condition in general, but like super personally demoralizing, I think? And so, for that generation of players, I think you had that that effect of seeing what happened when you tried. Seeing just how immediately it was struck down and how it wasn’t something like, oh, well, like the effort failed, but we still got XYZ it wasn’t the effort failed. And now not only are you back where you started, you’re actually kind of worse off. And and then you know, you had some like very small attempts at not quite unionization, but a forming another organization like the Brotherhood of Professional Baseball Players. Which was what preceded the Players’ League, just kind of an organization that gave players a voice but wasn’t a formal labor union.

ALEX:  Far better name than the MLBPA, I just want to say that too.

EMMA:  It really is. It’s super, they should go back to that, the Brotherhood. They had there was one free attempt in like 1905, after going to come on the scene, you had another one like right before World War I. And none of those really worked until they decided to like fully see it as a union until you had like Marvin Miller step in and so and that’s a person decades down the line. I think it was a combination of like the players in the immediate aftermath being kind of really burned by it, then you have these failed attempts to do a kind of a halfway step of like, let’s organize but let’s not actually unionize and realizing no, you need to go all the way. Like the half [45:17]–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  –is not going to get you anything here. And then I think just like the the the rate people and in flood and Miller together. But yeah, it is really crazy that you could take a step that drastic in 1890, and then have basically nothing else until you know, the late 1960s.

BOBBY:  It’s when I was reading about the Brotherhood of Professional Baseball Players and they weren’t considered an official union. It’s like kind of more like a trade association, I guess. Like they don’t have the the right to collective bargaining the same way that a union would. But they do kind of they can kind of like organize the workers in in like a wildcat way? Or like they could just choose what they do. Like they don’t have the protections but also like, what are the Owners gonna do if all the players stopped showing up. So they are considering a strike and they were considering the Players’ League and they ultimately went with the Players’ League. And like you said, I’m like, shut down, but it’s it kind of reminds me a little bit of like advocates for Minor Leaguers. Or, you know, More Than Baseball, like these outside sort of organizing forces that speak on behalf of some of the players and are advocating for better conditions. Even if right now, they don’t have the legal protections that a union would have to actually demand those better conditions or bargain over those better conditions. I’m going to do that. I think that we’re kind of like, at a similar moment in the baseball landscape. Like there is a lot of rancor and like a lot of, you know, transformational energy among players. Even if like it’s sort of like entrenched at the MLB level. I think nationwide, and like baseball as a larger umbrella, I think we have like a similar level of energy and engagement about making conditions better for Minor Leaguers the way that they had to do for Major Leaguers over a century ago. Do you see a connection like that? Or am I imagining it, because that’s all we talk about here?

EMMA:  No, I think that’s completely true. And I think a big part of that is like, one of the first things that Brotherhood did was organized fundraisers and like benefit plans among themselves. Like mutual aid, for the biggest one was players who were injured or sick. Like it used to be, if you got hurt, you you wouldn’t get paid for any games you miss. Like, hopefully, you’ll get healthy again and come back, and then you’ll get paid. But until then, like tough luck. And so they created these like, yep, like mutual aid, where they’d all pitch in a little and help out a guy who was hurt badly enough to to miss a lot of time. And that’s really similar, I think, to what we’ve seen, with Minor League mutual aid in the especially the last two years with the pandemic. Not organizing for players who are injured, but just because players need it to live. Because they’re not getting paid otherwise, because they’re not getting paid enough otherwise. Like that instinct of, I think specifically of you know, our first step is figuring out how to help each other with just like material need. That’s not being met by the organizations and using that as a like delivering that help where needed, but be as kind of like an animating force to show others. Like, this is what teams won’t do for a player. So we’re doing it ourselves. That’s–

BOBBY:  Right.

EMMA:  –exactly the same thing.

ALEX:  It also feels like a kind of rebuffs, I think the argument that the anti-labor argument that is thrown out today a lot, right. That idea of, oh, it’s just millionaires versus billionaires fighting. And, you know, I wish we could go back to the days where they just played for the love of the game and, and get politics out of Baseball. All this, all these kinds of arguments that float around in the ether today, among baseball fans. This seems to kind of fly in the face of that, right? And and recognizes that labor has always been a a central part of this game. And well, players may have played for the love of the game, and I’m sure many do still today. They were still well aware of their personal power. And it’s kind of more a testament to the, the way that management has eroded that solidarity and labor power. Over the last century than it is indicative of you know, where we are right now with regards to players or his owners or where we were back then, you know.

EMMA:  Yeah, it it’s really interesting, because one of the first things that John Montgomery War–Ward, who was the founder of the The Brotherhood, and then the Players’ League. One of the first things he had to do was convince people that this is a job, which is still kind of–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  –they’re having today. He–

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  –briefly had this movement to start in call–instead of calling them baseball players. Because play like evokes playing in a game. He wanted them to be called the Baseball lists.

BOBBY:  Hmm.

EMMA:  Like this is a, a craft that we’re all doing together. Like you’re not a player, you’re a Baseball list,

BOBBY:  Yeah.

EMMA:  Obviously it didn’t catch on. But like yeah, it was even though they were being paid. I mean [49:58]–

BOBBY:  If somebody, somebody who like, who like wrongfully assumes baseball as a better sport than anyone any other sport. Like you’re a baseball list, like, you look down on Football.

EMMA:  Like, yeah, you’re prejudiced against other sports.

BOBBY:  Yeah, exactly.

EMMA:  Exactly. Uhm, but yeah, like it was fighting that same battle like they were, the average salary was like $1,800 a year, at one point. Like, certainly not millionaires versus billionaires. But it was very much like this is work. take us seriously, like you are labor. And everyone should see us as labor. And like, yeah, that’s been a huge part of it from the beginning.

BOBBY:  I think one of the things that I was most interested in when I saw the article and then was, was satisfied that it was like a thread throughout the whole thing was like, this idea of, do you try to fix what you have? Or do you just say, let’s try to make something new. This is like, this is such a theme threw out. All of like every socio-political institution, it’s like, do you try to reform from within? Or do you just try to say, I think we would be better off starting from scratch and, and setting the our own terms and seeing if we completely fucked it up. Like the people before us completely fucked it up. And just knowing, like having the peace of mind that, hey, we tried something radical, and we tried to change something. And I mean, we talk a lot about, we talk a lot about that on the show. Like the, the value of splitting your energy between, hey, do we try to like, you know, do we try to lean on Major League Baseball to like treat fans like, actually part of the equation? Or do we just try to say, hey, maybe in 50 years, baseball will be publicly owned, and we’ll have massive political transformation. Like, that’s kind of like a battle that we’re always weighing. I mean, Emma, when you were researching this, and they kind of were making that decision to like, go break out on their own. Was there like, internal strife amongst them? Are they afraid of doing that? Or was like, was it a pretty like, easy sell? I think conditions are so bad. We do want to go out on our own, and it won’t be hard to get players to come and do this.

EMMA:  It was a weirdly easy sell, it seems like which is me. Yeah, as you said, that feels totally crazy today, we’re just the idea of imagining something. Feels like such a big step like to to to think like a, like a better system could potentially exist.

ALEX:  Yeah,

EMMA:  Feels like a radical, crazy thing to say out wow.

BOBBY:  Dark.

EMMA:  Uhm, and yet, for them, it really wasn’t. And I think a big part of that was, you know, to consider the time period, like the 1870s, 1880s, 1890s. You had teams popping up all the time, like collapsing after a few years. Like they weren’t considered these long standing civic institutions the way they are today? You know, like–

BOBBY:  Uh-hmm.

EMMA:  –a team would exist for a couple of years, and then it would go under. And then maybe a different one would pop up in its place. You had the American Association as a another league that was operating entirely. Lots of independent leagues that were like, kind of on the same level, but where it really. It it was just such a different environment, that the idea that you could like, say, like, hey, like, you know, people are starting new teams all the time. Why don’t we just start a new league? Like, was both like, super radical from a a a labor perspective, but also from like, a just operational perspective. It’s like, this is kind of happening all the time anyway. And I mean, we’re 10 years from the American League popping up. So like–

BOBBY:  Yeah, yeah.

EMMA:  –the idea of founding a new league itself, like, not radical in and of itself, just very radical for the players to be the ones to do it.

ALEX:  Let’s say it does exist today. Or, or the the will, is there, among the players. Who, who is going to be the one leading that charge, do you think? In in your, I mean, we’re just spitballing here. But like, who’s going to be the guy that is going to rally the players to say, you know, it’s time for us to stand up and fight back? Or maybe who is the one who the players would you think would place the most faith in to kind of lead this action?

EMMA:  That’s a really good question. Because I think like when you look back at how it happened the first time, John Montgomery Ward was a really good mix of like, genuinely excellent player. So Hall of Famer, he pitched the second perfect game in baseball history. But just like a really good teammate, who was really well respected by everyone who played with him. Like it it, and also was someone who had been even as one of the better players and one of the more highly paid ones at the time was one who had been like, walked all over earlier in his career. Like before the reserved cause he was actually on a team [54:36]. The Owner, the end of the year, they clearly weren’t going to win the pennant. Owner wanted to save some costs. So he cut the entire team. The day before their final paychecks were going to be sent out and just like forfeited the last five games. Because he was like, oh, they’ll be back next year, but I can’t pay you for these games, so we’re just gonna forfeit them all, bye! Like, that sucks. Uhm–

ALEX:  Wow.

EMMA:  Yeah. Uhm, and so like someone, I feel like that’s a good mix, like someone who has been like, can see how this system can like really mess you up. But also is genuinely good and is as a player and really well-respected and a really good communicator who was a great writer. So I think it’s it’s not too obvious to go with someone who’s currently on the Executive Subcommittee and therefore kind of in this role already. I feel like Andrew Miller is a really good fit for it. Uhm–

BOBBY:  Oh, interesting.

EMMA:  Yeah, I feel like Scher–Scherzer is an easy choice because he’s super vocal, obviously, one of the most highly paid players, excellent future Hall of Famer. But I kind of like Andrew Miller in this role instead because I think someone who, as a reliever you’ve seen, like, firsthand have a lot to point to of how the way in which your job can be controlled by front office’s and ownership who aren’t necessarily thinking of the longevity and best needs of the players. What that can do to a career and what that can do to people. Very effective communicator. He’s done a lot of this front facing work for the Union and seems to be by all accounts just like pretty beloved in it. Lots of people are a fan of him. I think I’m gonna go with him over over someone like Scherzer although his masters are wants to start it off like five years, [56:23].

BOBBY:  I will watch Max Scherzer pitch to any human being anywhere, so long as he is revved up and ready to roar. I I love I, we can’t let you get out here without talking about the proposal in the after the 1888 season. Where there were like different tiers of players like graded from A through E. And the A players would only be able to see receive a maximum of $2,500, while E grade players could only receive a maximum of $1,500 and would have to work as groundskeepers or ticket takers. Was that kind of one of the bigger revelations for like, okay, collective bargaining has come very far since then for you?

ALEX:  Imagine walking up and Max Scherzer is taking your tickets. Or I guess in this case, it’s probably more likely to be Andrew Miller taking your tickets.

BOBBY:  I mean, we were like three years removed from when, why don’t know why I’m blanking on his name right now. The really fitter who turned into a starter for the Twins, who was driving Uber and that was like, their whole that was like a social media market.

ALEX:  Yeah, Randy Dobnak.

BOBBY:  Randy Dobnak was was actually working a second job, it just happened to not be happen to be for a tech company, a tech rideshare company, not for the Minnesota Twins.

EMMA:  It’s just such a ridiculous idea that it like, yeah, it just perfectly put it in context, this idea that not only would Owners want to be so cheap as to install this, like very regimented system. But like, if you’re not considered a good enough player, like, we’ll take all of your labor no matter what it looks like. It’s just wild.

BOBBY:  Right. It’s like Andrew Miller having to like log stats in tape, like over the offseason, you know, like that would be the 2022 equivalent.

EMMA:  Yeah, it’s just incredible. And it’s like, really like I should have put that upfront with you know, the reserve cause the labor conditions. Like even though this didn’t fully get implemented the way it was proposed. The fact that the Owners, like A thought of this and B publicize it as like, guess what everyone, this is how Baseball is gonna work soon is like that was also a huge, huge factor. Just the suggestion that like performance drops, like you’re going to be taken care of the the grounds, but that was also a huge win.

ALEX:  A better sport as possible and also a worse sport is definitely possible. I promise you that much. Uhm, Emma, thank you so much for being so gracious with your time. This has been a real joy to to talk about. Before we let you get out of here, do you want to just tell people where they can find your work? Where they can find your your writing? Your, your takes anything you want to get out there in the world?

EMMA:  Yeah, thank you for having me. This is great. Uhm, I’m on Twitter @emmabaccellieri. Work is at Sports Illustrated. And uhm, yeah, happy to be here and happy to to talk about the the cool stuff that was the Players’ League.

BOBBY:  Thanks so much, Emma.

[59:17]

[Transition Music]

BOBBY:  Okay, thank you to Emma. I’m not sure what we’re gonna be doing on the feed next week, Alex. Because I will be on a cross country road trip to move back to the East Coast. So we’ll see TBD, question mark. In the meantime, you know, you could do you could tell a friend to subscribe to Tipping Pitches if you enjoyed this and or any other episodes of our podcast recently. Or you could buy a t shirt, or a hat, or some stickers at tiny.cc/nationalize.

ALEX:  We’ve got to start using Baseball lists. I’m just saying it. I’m not saying player anymore. The MLB Baseball Lists Association.

BOBBY:  I thought it was gonna be like Baseball workers, you know.

ALEX:  That’s, that’s where I thought it was gonna go too. But, no–

BOBBY:  Baseball is, this was a curveball, no pun intended.

ALEX:  It’s an you’re an artist, right?

BOBBY:  True.

ALEX:  I mean, that’s the that’s the sentiment. Baseball is an art.

BOBBY:  I like it. Baseball is as good. It sort of sounds like someone who writes essays about base–essays, you know, like–

ALEX:  Uh-huh.

BOBBY:  –but we could, we could get over the initial awkwardness of the word. It looks better on paper than it does out loud. But they barely even had recorded audio at the time. So they were mostly writing stuff down.

ALEX:  Thank you, everyone for listening. We will be back next week.

[1:00:44]

[Music]

[1:00:55]

[Outro]

ALEX RODRIGUEZ:  Hello everybody, I’m Alex Rodriguez, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches. This is the one that I love the most Tipping Pitches. So we’ll see you next week. See ya.

Transcriptionist: Vernon Bryann Casil

Editor: Krizia Marrie Casil
Posted bytippingpitchespodJanuary 25, 2022Posted inAudio, EpisodeTags:MLB CBA, MLB lockout, players' league, Rob Manfred, sports illustrated, Tipping Pitches, Tipping Pitches podcast
Leave a comment on Long Live the Players’ League (feat. Emma Baccellieri)	

